Did you know that there are 206 bones in the adult human body and there are 300 in children (as they grow some of the bones fuse together).
Flea's can jump 130 times higher than their own height. In human terms this is equal to a 6ft. person jumping 780 ft. into the air.
The most dangerous animal in the world is the common housefly. Because of their habits of visiting animal waste, they transmit more diseases than any other animal.
Snakes are true carnivorous because they eat nothing but other animals. They do not eat any type of plant material.
The world's largest amphibian is the giant salamander. It can grow up to 5 ft. in length.
100 years ago: The first virus was found in both plants and animals.
90 years ago: The Grand Canyon became a national monument & Cellophane is invented.
80 years ago: The food mixer and the domestic refrigerator were invented.
70 years ago: The teletype and PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) were invented.
60 years ago: Otto Hahn discovered nuclear fission by splitting uranium, Teflon was invented.
50 years ago: Velcro was invented.
40 years ago: An all-female population of lizards was discovered in Armenia.
30 years ago: The computer mouse was invented.
20 years ago: First test-tube baby born in England, Pluto’s moon, Charon, discovered.
10 years ago: First patent for a genetically-engineered mouse was issued to Harvard Medical School.
5 years ago: The first successful cloning of human embryo
The smallest bone in the human body is the stapes or stirrup bone located in the middle ear. It is approximately .11 inches (.28 cm) long.
The longest cells in the human body are the motor neurons. They can be up to 4.5 feet (1.37 meters) long and run from the lower spinal cord to the big toe.
There are no poisonous snakes in Maine.
The blue whale can produce sounds up to 188 decibels. This is the loudest sound produced by a living animal and has been detected as far away as 530 miles.
The largest man-made lake in the U.S. is Lake Mead, created by Hoover Dam.
The poison arrow frogs of South and Central America are the most poisonous animals in the world.
A new born blue whale measures 20-26 feet (6.0 - 7.9 meters) long and weighs up to 6,614 pounds (3003 kg).
The first coast-to-coast telephone line was established in 1914.
The Virginia opossum has a gestation period of only 12-13 days.
The Stegosaurus dinosaur measured up to 30 feet (9.1 meters) long but had a brain the size of a walnut.
The largest meteorite crater in the world is in Winslow, Arizona. It is 4,150 feet across and 150 feet deep.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times a year.
Skylab, the first American space station, fell to the earth in thousands of pieces in 1979. Thankfully most over the ocean.
It takes approximately 12 hours for food to entirely digest.
Human jaw muscles can generate a force of 200 pounds (90.8 kilograms) on the molars.
The Skylab astronauts grew 1.5 - 2.25 inches (3.8 - 5.7 centimeters) due to spinal lengthening and straightening as a result of zero gravity.
An inch (2.5 centimeters) of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches (38.1 centimeters) of dry, powdery snow.
Tremendous erosion at the base of Niagara Falls (USA) undermines the shale cliffs and as a result the falls have receded approximately 7 miles over the last 10,000 years.
40 to 50 percent of body heat can be lost through the head (no hat) as a result of its extensive circulatory network.
A large swarm of desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria) can consume 20,000 tons (18,160,000 kilograms) of vegetation a day.
The largest telescope in the world is currently being constructed in northern Chile. The telescope will utilize four - 26 ft. 8 in. (8.13 meters) mirrors which will gather as much light as a single 52 ft. 6 in. (16 meters) mirror.
The Hubble Space Telescope weighs 12 tons (10,896 kilograms), is 43 feet (13.1 meters) long, and cost $2.1 billion to originally build.
The longest living cells in the body are brain cells which can live an entire lifetime.
The largest flying animal was the pterosaur which lived 70 million years ago. This reptile had a wing span of 36-39 feet (11-11.9 meters) and weighed 190-250 pounds (86-113.5 kilograms).
The Atlantic Giant Squid's eye can be as large as 15.75 inches (40 centimeters) wide.
Armadillos, opossums, and sloth's spend about 80% of their lives sleeping.
The starfish species, Porcellanaster ivanovi, has been found to live in water as deep as 24,881 feet (7,584 meters).
The tentacles of the giant Arctic jellyfish can reach 120 feet (36.6 meters) in length.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 54 ft. 6 in. (16.6 meters).
The highest temperature produced in a laboratory was 920,000,000 F (511,000,000 C) at the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, NJ, USA.
The most powerful laser in the world, the Nova laser at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, CA, USA, generates a pulse of energy equal to 100,000,000,000,000 watts of power for .000000001 second to a target the size of a grain of sand.
The fastest computer in the world is the CRAY Y-MP C90 supercomputer. It has two gigabytes of central memory and 16 parallel central processor units.
The heaviest human brain ever recorded weighed 5 lb. 1.1 oz. (2.3 kg.).
The deepest part of the ocean is 35,813 feet (10,916 meters) deep and occurs in the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean. At that depth the pressure is 18,000 pounds (9172 kilograms) per square inch.
The largest cave in the world (the Sarawak Chamber in Malaysia) is 2,300 feet (701 meters) long, 980 feet (299 meters) wide, and more than 230 feet (70 meters) high.
The hottest planet in the solar system is Venus, with an estimated surface temperature of 864 F (462 C).
The ears of a cricket are located on the front legs, just below the knee.
The first electronic digital computer (called ENIAC - the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator) was developed in 1946 and contained over 18,000 vacuum tubes.
The leg muscles of a locust are about 1000 times more powerful than an equal weight of human muscle.
The cosmos contains approximately 50,000,000,000 galaxies.
There are between 100,000,000,000 and 1,000,000,000,000 stars in a normal galaxy.
Sound travels about 4 times faster in water than in air.
Scientists have discovered that copper pollution of the atmosphere occurred about 2500 years ago. This was discovered by analyzing ice cores from Greenland. The pollution was attributed to the Romans who used copper for military purposes and to produce coins.
Hydrofluoric acid will dissolve glass.
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of roots may reach 380 miles (613 km).
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of fine root hairs may reach 6600 miles (10,645 km).
A large sunspot can last for about a week.
If you could throw a snowball fast enough, it would totally vaporize when it hit a brick wall.
Boron nitride (BN) is the second hardest substance known to man.
The female Tarantula Hawk wasp paralyzes a large spider with her sting. She then lays her eggs on the motionless body so that her developing young have a fresh supply of spider meat to feed on.
The seeds of an Indian Lotus tree remain viable for 300 to 400 years.
The only letter not appearing on the Periodic Table is the letter “J”.
Velcro was invented by a Swiss guy who was inspired by the way burrs attached to clothing.
Hershey's Kisses are called that because the machine that makes them looks like it's kissing the conveyor belt.
October 10 is National Metric Day.
If you stretch a standard Slinky out flat it measures 87 feet long.
The microwave was invented after a researcher walked by a radar tube and a chocolate bar melted in his pocket.
Super Glue was invented by accident. The researcher was trying to make optical coating materials, and would test their properties by putting them between two prisms and shining light through them. When he tried the cyano-acrylate, he couldn't get the prisms apart.
No matter its size or thickness, no piece of paper can be folded in half more than 7 times.
A car traveling at 80 km/h uses half its fuel to overcome wind resistance.
Knowledge is growing so fast that ninety per cent of what we will know in fifty years time, will be discovered in those fifty years.
According to an old English system of time units, a moment is one and a half minutes.
The typewriter was invented in 1829, and the automatic dishwasher in 1889.
The wristwatch was invented in 1904 by Louis Cartier.
When glass breaks, the cracks move at speeds of up to 3,000 miles per hour.
By raising your legs slowly and laying on your back, you can't sink in quicksand.
Ten minutes of one hurricane contains enough energy to match the nuclear stockpiles of the world.
Most gemstones contain several elements. The exception? The diamond. It's all carbon.
Diamonds are the hardest substance known to man.
Which of the 50 states has never had an earthquake? North Dakota.
When hydrogen burns in the air, water is formed.
Sterling silver contains 7.5% copper.
Cars were first made with ignition keys in 1949.
J.B Dunlop was first to put air into tires.
Alexander Graham Bell, who invented the telephone, also set a world water-speed record of over seventy miles an hour at the age of seventy two.
It is energy-efficient to turn off a fluorescent light only if it will not be used again within an hour or more. This is because of the high voltage needed to turn it on, and the shortened life this high voltage causes.
The Earth's equatorial circumference (40,075 km) is greater than its polar circumference (40,008 km).
Lake Baikal is the deepest lake in the world.
Due to gravitational effects, you weigh slightly less when the moon is directly overhead.
The Earth's average velocity orbiting the sun is 107,220 km per hour.
There is a high and low tide because of our moon and the Sun.
The United States consumes 25% of all the world’s energy.
Flying from London to New York by Concord, due to the time zones crossed, you can arrive 2 hours before you leave.
There is enough fuel in a full tank of a Jumbo Jet to drive an average car four times around the world.
The surface speed record on the moon is 10.56 miles per hour. It was set with the lunar rover.
If you could drive to the sun -- at 55 miles per hour -- it would take about 193 years
The moon is one million times drier than the Gobi Desert.
Just twenty seconds worth of fuel remained when Apollo 11's lunar module landed on the moon.
A Boeing 707 uses four thousand gallons of fuel in its take-off climb.
The planet Saturn has a density lower than water. So, if placed in water it would float.
Since 1959, more than 6,000 pieces of 'space junk' (abandoned rocket and satellite parts) have fallen out of orbit - many of these have hit the earth's surface.
It takes 70% less energy to produce a ton of paper from recycled paper than from trees.
Every year in the US, 625 people are struck by lightning.
Hawaii is moving toward Japan 4 inches every year.
The rocket engine has to supply its own oxygen so it can burn its fuel in outer space.
The North Atlantic gets 1 inch wider every year.
Oxygen is the most abundant element in the Earth’s crust, waters, and atmosphere (about 49.5%)
A stroke of lightning discharges from 10 to 100 million volts & 30,000 amperes of electricity.
A bolt of lightning is about 54,000°F (30,000°C); six times hotter than the Sun.
Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the Universe (75%).
The average distance between the Earth & the Moon is 238,857 miles (384,392 km).
The moon is 27% the size of the Earth.
The Earth weighs 6.6 sextillion tons, or 5.97 x 1024 kg.
The center of the Sun is about 27 million degrees Fahrenheit (15 million °C).
Sunlight takes about 8 minutes & 20 seconds to reach the Earth at 186,282 miles/sec (299,792 Km/sec).
The highest temperature on Earth was 136°F (58°C) in Libya in 1922.
The lowest temperature on Earth was -128.6°F (-89.6°C) in Antarctica in 1983.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 240 feet.
The average ocean floor is 12,000 feet.
The temperature can be determined by counting the number of cricket chirps in fourteen seconds and adding 40.
House flies have a lifespan of two weeks.
Chimps are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
Starfish don't have brains.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
Shrimp's hearts are in their heads.
Every time you lick a stamp, you're consuming 1/10 of a calorie.
The longest recorded flight of a chicken is thirteen seconds
Emus and kangaroos cannot walk backwards.
Cats have over one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs only have about ten.
Porcupines float in water.
An ostrich's eye is bigger that its brain.
An iguana can stay under water for twenty-eight minutes.
The common goldfish is the only animal that can see both infra-red and ultra-violet light.
It's impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
The pupil of an octopus' eye is rectangular.
Our eyes are always the same size from birth, but our nose and ears never stop growing.
The leg bones of a bat are so thin that no bat can walk.
Ants cannot chew their food, they move their jaws sideways, like scissors, to extract the juices from the food.
Hummingbirds are the only animals able to fly backwards.
A cat has 32 muscles in each ear.
Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur.
A cat's jaws cannot move sideways.
Armadillos get an average of 18.5 hours of sleep per day.
Armadillos can walk underwater.
There are more beetles than any other kind of creature in the world.
Certain frogs that can survive the experience of being frozen.
Only humans sleep on their backs.
The human brain is 80% water.
Everyone's tongue print is different.
As an adult, you have more than 20 square feet of skin on your body--about the same square footage as a blanket for a queen-sized bed.
In your lifetime, you'll shed over 40 pounds of skin.
15 million blood cells are produced and destroyed in the human body every second.
Every minute, 30-40,000 dead skin cells fall from your body.
The brain uses more than 25% of the oxygen used by the human body.
If your mouth was completely dry, you would not be able to distinguish the taste of anything.
There are more living organisms on the skin of a single human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.
Muscles are made up of bundles from about 5 in the eyelid to about 200 in the buttock muscle.
Muscles in the human body (640 in total) make up about half of the body weight.
The human body has enough fat to produce 7 bars of soap.
The human head is a quarter of our total length at birth, but only an eighth of our total length by the time we reach adulthood.
Most people blink about 17,000 times a day.
Moths have no stomach.
Hummingbirds can't walk.
Sea otters have 2 coats of fur.
A starfish can turn its stomach inside out.
A zebra is white with black stripes.
The animal with the largest brain in relation to its body is the ant.
The largest eggs in the world are laid by a shark.
A crocodile’s tongue is attached to the roof of its mouth.
Crocodiles swallow stones to help them dive deeper.
Giraffes are unable to cough.
Sharks are immune to cancer.
Despite the hump, a camel’s spine is straight.
Cheetah's can accelerate from 0 to 70 km/h in 3 seconds.
A giraffe's neck contains the same number of vertebrae as a human.
The heart of giraffe is two feet long, and can weigh as much as twenty four pounds.
On average, Elephants sleep for about 2 hours per day.
Lobsters have blue blood.
Shark's teeth are literally as hard as steel.
A mosquito has 47 teeth.
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 90% of the human body.
Seventy percent of the dust in your home consists of shed human skin
Fish are the only vertebrates that outnumber birds.
A cockroach can live for several weeks without its head.
The average human produces a quart of saliva a day -- about 10,000 gallons in a lifetime
Elephants have been known to remain standing after they die.
The embryos of tiger sharks fight each other while in their mother's womb, the survivor being the baby shark that is born.
Ants do not sleep.
Nearly a third of all bottled drinking water purchased in the US is contaminated with bacteria.
Rats multiply so quickly that in 18 months, two rats could have over 1 million descendents.
An Astronaut can be up to 2 inches taller returning from space. The cartilage disks in the spine expand in the absence of gravity.
The oldest known fossil is of a single-celled organism, blue-green algae, found in 3.2 billion year-old stones in South Africa.
The oldest multicellular fossils date from ~700 million years ago.
The earliest cockroach fossils are about 280 million years old.
Healthy nails grow about 2 cm each year. Fingernails grow four times as fast as toenails.
20/20 vision means the eye can see normally at 20 feet. 20/15 is better; the eye can see at 20 feet what another eye sees at 15 feet.
The average person has 100,000 hairs on his/her head. Each hair grows about 5 inches (12.7 cm) every year.
There are 60,000 miles (97,000 km) in blood vessels in every human.
Height of the Statue from her heel to the top of her head is 111 feet, 6 inches
The face on the Statue of Liberty measures more than 8 feet tall
There are 154 steps from the pedestal to the head of the Statue of Liberty
A tablet held in her left hand of the Statue of Liberty measures 23' 7" tall and 13' 7" wide inscribed with the date JULY IV MDCCLXXVI (July 4, 1776)
The Statue of Liberty has a 35-foot waistline
Total weight of the Statue of Liberty is 225 tons (or 450,000 pounds)
The exterior copper covering of the Statue of Liberty is 3/32 of an inch thick (less than the thickness of two pennies) and the light green color (called a patina) is the result of natural weathering of the copper
"Allah Akbar, Allah Akbar, La Allah Il Allah, La Allah Il Allah U Mohammed Rassul Allah" is heard by more people than any other sound of the human voice. This is the prayer recited by muezzins from each of the four corners of the prayer tower as Moslems all over the world face toward Mecca and kneel at sunset. It means: "God is great. There is no God but God, and Mohammed is the prophet of God."
Almonds and pistachios are the only nuts mentioned in the Bible.
Although not named in the New Testament, tradition names the two thieves crucified at the same time as Jesus as Dismas and Gestas.
As specified by the Christian church, the canonical hours are matins, lauds, prime, terce, sext, none, vespers, and compline.
Gabriel, Michael, and Lucifer are the three angels mentioned by name in the Bible.
In Christian theology there are nine choirs of angels. From highest to lowest, they are: seraphim, cherubim, thrones, dominions, virtues, powers, principalities, archangels, and angels.
One of the holiest Christian holidays is named after a pagan goddess. The name "Easter" derives from the Anglo-Saxon goddess Eostre, who governed the vernal equinox.
Salt is mentioned more than 30 times in the Bible.
Scholars estimate that the 66 books of the King James version of the Bible were written by some 50 different authors.
Seven suicides are recorded in the Bible.
Some biblical scholars believe that Aramaic (the language of the ancient Bible) did not contain an easy way to say 'many things' and used a term which has come down to us as 40. This means that when the bible -- in many places -- refers to '40 days,' they meant many days.
Strict Puritan laws had their origins from practical reasons. Smoking was banned - farmers would raise badly needed food crops instead of tobacco. Cooking was banned on Sundays - to prevent house fires during the long hours the family was at church. Young men were banned from hunting - to prevent weapons from falling into Indian hands.
The 1st US Mormon temple was dedicated in Kirtland, Ohio in 1836.
The 3 Magi:(or Wise Men) and their gifts: Melchoir, "king of light," offered Gold, Gaspar ,"or the white one," offered frankincense, and Balthazar, "lord of treasures," offered myrrh.
The Bible devotes some 500 verses on prayer, less than 500verses on faith, but over 2000 verses on money and posessions.
The Bible was written by about 40 men over a period of about 1600 years dating from 1500 BC to about 100 years after Christ.
The Church of Scientology was founded in 1953, at Washington DC, by US science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard.
The first translation of the English Bible was initiated by John Wycliffe and completed by John Purvey in 1388.
The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, named in the Bible's Book of Revelation, are Conquest, Slaughter, Famine, and Death.
The Hindu holy day begins at sunrise, the Jewish holy day begins at sunset, and the Christian holy day begins at midnight.
The longest name in the Bible Mahershalalhashbaz (Isaiah 8:1).
The patron saint of dentists is St. Apollonia. She reportedly had her teeth pulled out in 249 AD by an anti-Christian mob.
The seven archangels are Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel, Chamuel, Jophiel, and Zadkiel.
The Seven Deadly Sins are lust, pride, anger, envy, sloth, avarice and gluttony.
The seven virtues are prudence, courage, temperance, justice, faith, hope and charity.
The shortest verse in the Bible consists of two words: "Jesus wept" (John 11:35).
The Three Wise Men of the East brought gold, frankincense and myrrh to the infant Jesus. Frankincense is a gum resin used as a base for incense. Myrrh, also a gum resin, was valued as a perfume and unguent used in embalming.
The two robbers crucified next to Jesus were named Dismas and Gestas.
There are 1189 chapters in the Bible: 929 chapters in the Old Testament and 260 chapters in the New Testament.
There are 49 different foods mentioned in the Bible.
Zipporah was the wife of Moses.
No piece of normal-size paper can be folded in half more than 7 times.
All swans in England are the property of the queen or king
The first product to have a bar code scanned was Wrigley's gum.
Earth is the only planet not named after a pagan God.
A Boeing 747s wingspan is longer than the Wright brother's first flight.
In Hong Kong, a betrayed wife is legally allowed to kill her cheating adulterous husband but she may only do so with her bare hands.
The new 787 Boeing was revealed on 7/8/07 or July 8th, 07.
Adding a drop of olive oil and lemon juice to an ice cube then running it over your face gives you better results than some expensive skin care products.
250 to 300 million cell phones are being used in the U.S
You will weigh less if you weigh yourself when the moon is full
Honeybees never sleep
Carl Sagan was a pot smoker
5% of the world population lives in the US but 22% of the world's prisons population are held in the US
80% of all pictures on the internet are of naked women
Horses can't vomit and pigs can't look up in the sky
San Jose was the original capital of California
Most lipstick have fish scales
In Arizona it is illegal to have more than two dildos in one house
Black olives contain on average 10 to 30% more oil than green olives
Cats are the most popular pets in the United States
The oldest dog died at the age of 29
Tamiflu's main natural ingredient is Chinese star anise
Not only the fur of the tiger is striped but also its skin
The Germans tried to copy Coca-Cola and came up with the drink Fanta.
Every day is about 55 billionths of a second longer than the day before it
Venus is the only planet that rotates clockwise.
The largest potato was grown in Lebanon by Khalil Semhat near Tyre.  The spud was 11.3 kilos (24.9 pounds)
Footprints of astronauts who landed on the moon should last at least 10 million years since the moon has no atmosphere.
The national orchestra of Monaco (a nation in Europe) has more individuals than its army.
Earthworms have five hearts
The Himalayan gogi berry contains, weight for weight, more iron than steak, more beta carotene than carrots, more vitamin C than oranges.
Paraguay and Moldova are the only countries with national flags with different emblems on the obverse and reverse sides.
Fingerprints of koalas are similar (in pattern, shape and size) to the fingerprints of humans
Genetically-engineered babies were born first in 2001.
If an Amish man has a beard, he is married.
If a native Hawaiian woman places the flower on her right ear, she is available.  (The bigger the flower, the more desperate)
Apples, not caffeine, are more efficient at waking you up in the morning.
Pope Pius II wrote an erotic book "Historia de duobos amantibus" in 1444.
SCUBA divers cannot pass gas at depths of 33 feet or below
Pele has always hated his nickname, which he says sounds like "baby-talk in Portuguese".
As of 2006, 200 million blogs were left without updates
Two phone books with their pages interlaced require more than 8000 pounds of pressure to separte.
Urban birds have developed a short, fast "rap style" of singing, different from their rural counterparts.
The lion costume in the film Wizard of Oz was made from real lions.
Fathers tend to determine the height of their child, mothers their weight.
The Pope's been known to wear red Prada shoes.
Donald Rumsfeld was both the youngest and the oldest defense secretary in US history.
Coco Chanel started the trend for sun tans in 1923 when she got accidentally burnt on a cruise.
Up to 25% of hospital keyboards carry the MRSA infection.
In ancient Greece, children of wealthy families were dipped in olive oil at birth to keep them hairless throughout their lives.
Ghandi didn't allow his wife to take penicillin to save her life from pneumonia but took quinine to save himself from malaria.
Sex workers (Prostitutes) in Roman times charged the equivalent price of eight glasses of red wine.
As of 2006, more than one in eight people in the United States show signs of addiction to the internet.
More than 90% of plane crashes have survivors.
The Mona Lisa used to hang on the wall of Napoleon’s bedroom.
Barbie's full name is Barbie Millicent Roberts.
Eating a packet of crisps a day is equivalent to drinking five liters of cooking oil a year.
Plant seeds that have been stored for more than 200 years can be coaxed into new life.
For every 10 successful attempts to climb Mount Everest there is one fatality. (As of 2006)
Watching television can act as a natural painkiller for children
Forty-one percent of English women have punched or kicked their partners, according to a study.
The more panels a football has - and therefore the more seams - the easier it is to control in the air.
Music can help reduce chronic pain by more than 20% and can alleviate depression by up to 25%.
The egg came first.
Modern teenagers are better behaved than their counterparts of 20 years ago, showing "less problematic behavior" involving sex, drugs and drink.
Britain is still paying off debts that predate the Napoleonic wars because it's cheaper to do so than buy back the bonds on which they are based.
In Bhutan government policy is based on Gross National Happiness; thus most street advertising is banned, as are tobacco and plastic bags.
The best-value consumer purchase in terms of the price and usage is an electric kettle.
Camel's milk, which is widely drunk in Arab countries, has 10 times more iron than cow's milk.
Iceland has the highest concentration of broadband users in the world.
Native Hawaiian women were not allowed to cook.
The age limit for marriage in France was, until recently, 15 for girls, but 18 for boys. The age for girls was raised to 18 in 2006.
The brain is soft and gelatinous - its consistency is something between jelly and cooked pasta.
The Himalayas cover one-tenth of the Earth's surface.
A "lost world" exists in the Indonesian jungle that is home to dozens of hitherto unknown animal and plant species.
The two most famous actors who portrayed the “Marlboro Man” in the cigarette ads died of lung cancer.
All US Presidents have worn glasses. Some just didn't like being seen wearing them in public.
The Mona Lisa has no eyebrows. It was the fashion in Renaissance Florence to shave them off.
Walt Disney was afraid of mice.
The first known marketer of the flushing toilet was Thomas Crapper.
The average bed is home to over 6 billion dust mites.
The cigarette lighter was invented before the match.
The average chocolate bar has 8 insect legs in it.
The average American consumes 1.2 pounds of spider eggs a year and eat 2.5 pounds of insect parts a year.  (This fact and the one prior to it have been judged as urban legends by many)
Right-handed people live, on average, nine years longer than left-handed people do.  (Makes you think about ambidextrous people)  This fact is based on a study that had errors in it, thus it might not be a fact.
Its impossible to smoke oneself to death with weed. You won\'t be able to retain enough motor control and consciousness to do so after such a large amount.
Every drop of seawater contains approximately 1 billion gold atoms.
The US national anthem actually has four verses, but everyone just knows the first one.  When the whole anthem is sung, the third verse is usually omitted.
During World War II, IBM built counting machines the Nazis used to manage their death/concentration camps.
During World War II, the British Intelligence used the Colossus Machines (precursor to computers) at Bletchley Park to help decode the enigma code of the Nazis.
The first Computer was ENIAC, short for Electronic Numerical Integrator And Computer, unveiled on February 14, 1946  (Thanks D.B. of AU)
The total combined weight of the worlds ant population is heavier than the weight of the human population.
The deadliest war in history excluding World War II was a civil war in China in the 1850s in which the rebels were led by a man who thought he was the brother of Jesus Christ.
Just about 3 people are born every second, and about 1.3333 people die every second. The result is about a 2 and 2/3 net increase of people every second. Almost 10 people more live on this Earth now, than before you finished reading this.
Happy Birthday (the song) is copyrighted.
The number of people alive on earth right now is higher than the number of all the people that have died. Ever.
Men with a certain rare medical condition can breastfeed babies
There is a rare condition called Exploding Head Syndrome which you have probably never heard of.
Scientists have determined that fungi are more closely related to human beings and animals than to other plants.
In some (maybe all) Asian countries, the family name is written
first and the individual name written second
Abe Lincoln bought 50 cents worth of cocaine in 1860
A German World War II submarine was sunk due to malfunction of the toilet.
Washington State has the longest single beach in the United States.Long Beach, WA
The largest living thing on the face of the Earth is a mushroom underground in Oregon, it measures three and a half miles in diameter.
The town of Los Angeles, California, was originally named "El Pueblo la Nuestra Senora de Reina de los Angeles de la Porciuncula"
9 out of 10 people believe Thomas Edison invented the light bulb.This isn't true; Joseph Swan did.
Honey is the only food that does not spoil. Honey found in the tombs of Egyptian pharaohs has been tasted by archaeologists and found edible.
The Population of the world can live within the state boundaries of Texas.
Plastic lawn flamingos outnumber real flamingos in the U.S.A.
Ernest Vincent Wright wrote a novel with over 50,000 words, none of which containing the letter "e."
Tourists visiting Iceland should know that tipping at a restaurant is not considered an insult! Despite the expensive food, tipping is welcome as in any other country.
The largest pumpkin weighed 377 pounds.
The largest cabbage weighed 144 pounds.
Pinocchio was made of pine.
Alfred Hitchcock had no belly button for it was eliminated during surgery.
A quarter has 119 grooves around the edge.
A dime has 118 ridges around the edge.
Cranberry Jell-0 is the only kind that contains real fruit.
The plastic things on the end of shoelaces are called aglets.
Maine is the toothpick capital of the world.
New Jersey has a spoon museum with over 5,400 spoons from almost all the states.
There was once a town in West Virginia called "6."
The parking meter was invented in North Dakota.
Napoleon made his battle plans in a sandbox.
Roman Emperor Caligula made his horse a senator.
The green stuff on the occasional freak potato chip is chlorophyll.
Neil Armstrong stepped on the moon with his left foot first.
There are 333 toilet paper squares on a toilet paper roll.
The Eiffel Tower has 2,500,000 rivets in it.
"Jaws" is the most common name for a goldfish.
On an average work day, a typist's fingers travel 12.6 miles.
Every minute in the U.S. six people turn 17.
Ten tons of space dust falls on the Earth every day.
On average, a 4-year-old child asks 437 questions a day.
Blue and white are the most common school colors.
Swimming pools in Phoenix, Arizona, pick up 20 pounds of dust a year.
In a normal lifetime an American will eat 200 pounds of peanuts and 10,000 pounds of meat.
A new book is published every 13 minutes in America.
America's best selling ice cream flavor is vanilla.
Every year the sun loses 360 million tons.
Because of Animal Crackers, many kids until they reach the age of ten, believe a bear is as tall as a giraffe.
The Gulf Stream could carry a message in a bottle at an average of 4 miles per hour.
The bulls-eye on a dartboard must be 5 feet 8 inches off the ground.
The doorbell was invented in 1831.
The electric shaver was patented on November 6, 1928.
Japan is the largest exporter of frog's legs.
There are seven points on the Statue of Liberty's crown.
Napoleon was terrified of cats.
The first Lifesaver flavor was peppermint.
The typical American eats 263 eggs a year.
The parking meter was invented by C.C. Magee in 1935.
The oldest known vegetable is the pea.
Jack is the most common name in nursery rhymes.
The avocado has the most calories of any fruit.
The first zoo in the USA was in Philadelphia.
France has the highest per capita consumption of cheese.
The shortest English word that contains the letters A, B, C, D, E, and F is "feedback."
The state of California raises the most turkeys out of all of the states.
George Washington Carver invented peanut butter.
Iceland was the first country to legalize abortion in 1935.
The dumbest domesticated animal is the turkey.
Russia has the most movie theaters in the world.
The most fatal car accidents occur on Saturday.
The Eiffel Tower has 1792 steps.
The mongoose was barred live entry into the U.S. in 1902.
Goldfish swallowing started at Harvard in 1939.
Dry fish food can make goldfish constipated.
The stall closest to the door in a bathroom is the cleanest, because it is the least used.
Toilet paper was invented in 1857.
Alaska could hold the 21 smallest States.
Before Prohibition, Schlitz Brewery owned more property in Chicago than anyone else, except the Catholic church.
If you put a raisin in a glass of champagne, it will keep floating to the top and sinking to the bottom.
Kermit the Frog is left-handed.
Nondairy creamer is flammable.
The car in the foreground on the back of a $10 bill is a 1925 Hupmobile.
If you can see a rainbow you must have your back to the sun.
The reason firehouses have circular stairways is from the days of yore when the engines were pulled by horses. The horses were stabled on the ground floor and figured out how to walk up straight staircases.
It's rumored that sucking on a copper penny will cause a breathalyzer to read 0. Myth Busters on the Discovery Channel proved this wrong.
The ship, the Queen Elizabeth 2, should always be written as QE2. QEII is the actual queen.
The correct response to the Irish greeting, "Top of the morning to you," is "and the rest of the day to yourself."
Columbia University is the second largest landowner in New York City, after the Catholic Church.
When the University of Nebraska Cornhuskers play football at home to a sellout crowd, the stadium becomes the state's third largest city.
Ohio is listed as the 17th state in the U.S., but technically it is Number 47. Until August 7, 1953, Congress forgot to vote on a resolution to admit Ohio to the Union.
When Saigon fell, the signal for all Americans to evacuate was Bing Crosby's "White Christmas" being played on the radio.
The pet ferret was domesticated more than 500 years before the house cat.
The dome on Monticello, Thomas Jefferson's home, conceals a billiards room. In Jefferson's day, billiards were illegal in Virginia.
The most common speed limit sign in the United States is 25 m.p.h.
At any one time, there are 100 million phone conversations going on in the United States.
The world's record for continuous pogo stick jumping is 41 hours.
The Ottoman Empire once had seven emperors in seven months. They died of (in order): burning, choking, drowning, stabbing, heart failure, poisoning and being thrown from a horse.
You can make edible cheese from the milk of 24 different mammals.
Sir Isaac Newton, who invented Calculus, had trouble with names to the point where he would forget his brothers' names.
In medieval Thailand, they had moveable type printing presses. The type was made from baked oxen dung.
By law, employees do not have to wash hands after sneezing.
The average American consumes enough caffeine in one year to kill a horse.
More American workers (18%) call sick on Friday than any other day of the week. Tuesday has the lowest percent of absenteeism (11%).
Enough beer is poured every Saturday across America to fill the Orange Bowl.
A newborn expels its own body weight in waste every 60 hours.
Whales die if their echo system fails.
Florida's beaches lose 20 million cubic yards of sand annually.
Naturalists use marshmallows to lure alligators out of swamps.
It takes a ton of water to make a pound of refined sugar.
Weevils are more resistant to poisons in the morning than at night.
Cacao, the main ingredient of chocolate is the most pest-ridden tree in the jungle.
In deep space most lubricants will disappear.
America once issued a 5-cent bill.
The average person can live 11 days without water.
In 1221 the daughter of Genghis Khan ordered the killing of the entire population of the city of Nishapur (about 60,000) in one hour.  The order came after her husband killing. (Moguls claim that 1.7 million were killed)
There are 35 million digestive glands in the stomach.
In 1800 on 50 cities on earth had a population of more than 100,000.
More steel in the US is used to make bottle caps than to manufacture automobile bodies.
It is possible for any American citizen to give whatever name he or she chooses to any unnamed mountain or hill in the United States.
King Henry III of France, Louis XVI of France and Napoleon all suffered from ailurophobia--fear of cats.
Before 1850 golf balls were made of leather and stuffed with feathers.
Clocks made before 1687 had only one hand, and hour hand.
The motto of the American people, "In God We Trust," was not adopted as the national slogan until 1956.
More Americans have died in automobile accidents than have died in all the wars ever fought by the United States.
The ampersand (&) was once a letter of the English alphabet.
The principality of Monaco consists of 370 acres.
There are more than 40,000 characters in Chinese script.
During the time of Peter the Great, any Russian man who had a beard was required to pay a special tax.
The first couple to be shown in bed together on prime time television was Fred and Wilma Flintstone.
Coca-Cola was originally green.
Every day more money is printed for Monopoly than the U.S. treasury.
The Hawaiian alphabet has 12 letters (I was thankfully corrected by a friend: The Hawai'ian alphabet has 13 letters, A, E, I, O, U, H, K, L, M, N, P, W, ' (which is called an okina).
Men can read smaller print than women; women can hear better.
The amount American Airlines saved in 1987 by eliminating one olive from each salad served in first class: $40,000.
City with the most Rolls Royces per capita: Hong Kong.
State with the highest percentage of people who walk to work: Alaska.
Percentage of Africa that is wilderness--28%. Percentage of North America that is wilderness--38%.
Average number of days a German goes without washing his underwear: 7.
Percentage of American men who say they would marry the same woman if they had it to do all over again: 80%.
Percentage of American women who say they'd marry the same man: 50%.
Cost of raising a medium size dog to the age of 11: $6,400.
Average people airborne over the US any given hour: 61,000.
Average lifespan of a major league baseball: 7 pitches.
The only President to win a Pulitzer Prize: John Kennedy for "Profiles in Courage."
The youngest Pope was 11 years old.
Iceland consumes more Coca-Cola per capita than any other nation.
First novel ever written on a typewriter: "Tom Sawyer."
A duck's quack doesn't echo, and no one knows why. (This was challenged and proved wrong by the TV show "Mythbusters")
The main library at Indiana University sinks over an inch every year because when it was built, engineers failed to take into account the weight of all the books that would occupy the building.
Each king in a deck of playing cards represents a great king from history. Spades--King David, Clubs--Alexander the Great, Hearts--Charlemagne and Diamonds--Julius Caesar.
If a statue in the park of a person on a horse has both front legs in the air, the person died in battle; if the horse has one leg front leg in the air, the person died as a result of wounds received in battle; if the horse has all 4 legs on the ground, the person died of natural causes.
Only two people signed the Declaration of Independence on July 4th. The last signature wasn't added until 5 years later.
The Eisenhower interstate system requires that one mile in every five must be straight. These straight sections are useable as airstrips in times of war or other emergencies.
The cruise liner, Queen Elizabeth 2, QE2, moves only six inches for each gallon of diesel that it burns.
The highest point in Pennsylvania is lower than the lowest point in Colorado.
The first airline, DELAG, was established on October 16, 1909, to carry passengers between German cities by Zeppelin airships. Up to November 1913, more than 34,000 people had used the service.
Titanic was running at 22 knots when she hit the iceberg
The citrus soda 7-UP was created in 1929; '7' was selected because the original containers were 7 ounces. 'UP' indicated the direction of the bubbles
Francis Scott Key was a young lawyer who wrote the poem, 'The Star Spangled Banner', after being inspired by watching the Americans fight off the British attack of Baltimore during the War of 1812. The poem became the words to the national anthem
Because radio waves travel at 186,000 miles per second and sound waves saunter at 700 miles per hour, a broadcast voice can be heard sooner 13,000 miles away than it can be heard at the back of the room in which it originated
Mosquito repellents don't repel. They hide you. The spray blocks the mosquito's sensors so they don't know your there
The bagpipe was originally made from the whole skin of a dead sheep
Inventor Samuel Colt patented his revolver in 1836.
It has been recommended by dentists that a toothbrush be kept at least 6 feet (two meters) away from a toilet to avoid airborne particles resulting from the flush!
In ancient Rome it was considered a sign of leadership to be born with a crooked nose
It is possible to drown and not die. Technically the term 'drowning' refers to the process of taking water into the lungs, not to death caused by that process.
The first known heart medicine was discovered in an English garden. In 1799, physician John Ferriar noted the effect of dried leaves of the common foxglove plant, digitalis purpurea, on heart action. Still used in heart medications, digitalis slows the pulse and increases the force of heart contractions and the amount of b lood pumped per heartbeat.
Dry cereal for breakfast was invented by John Henry Kellogg at the turn of the century
During World War II, a German U-boat was sunk by a truck. The U-boat in question attacked a convoy in the Atlantic and then rose to see the effect. The merchant ship it sank had material strapped to its deck including a fleet of trucks, one of which was thrown in the air by the explosion, landing on the U-boat and breaking its back
Jeremy Bentham, a British philosopher who died in 1832,left his entire estate to the London Hospital provided that his body be allowed to preside over its board meetings. His skeleton was clothed and fitted with a wax mask of his face. It was present at the meeting for 92 years.
Diet Coke was only invented in 1982.
Methane gas can often be seen bubbling up from the bottom of ponds. It is produced by the decomposition of dead plants and animals in the mud.
There are more than 1,700 references to gems and precious stones in the King James translation of the Bible.
The E. Coli bacterium propels itself with a 'motor' only one-millionth of an inch in diameter, a thousand times smaller than the tiniest motors built to date by man. The rotation of the bacterial motor comes from a current of protons. The efficiency of the motor approaches 100 per cent.
Henry Ford produced the model T only in black because the black paint available at the time was the fastest to dry.
At - 40 degrees Centigrade a person loses about 14.4 calories per hour by breathing.
Pet superstores now sell about 40 percent of all pet food
One million Americans, about 3,000 each day, take up smoking each year. Most of them are children.
In 1933, Mickey Mouse, an animated cartoon character, received 800,000 fan letters.
There are only four words in the English language which end in '-dous': tremendous, horrendous, stupendous, and hazardous
If you attempted to count to stars in a galaxy at a rate of one every second it would take around 3,000 years to count them all.
Less than 3% of Nestlé's sales are for chocolate.
The average person will spend two weeks over their lifetime waiting for the traffic light to change
More than 2500 left handed people are killed every year from using right handed products
It is estimated that at any one time, 0.7% of the world's population are drunk
The tip of a 1/3 inch long hour-hand on a wristwatch travels at 0.00000275 mph
Less than one per cent of the 500 Chinese cities have clean air, respiratory disease is China's leading cause of death.
The number of cars on the planet is increasing three times faster than the population growth
The X's that people sometimes put at the end of letters or notes to mean a kiss, actually started back in the 1000's when Lords would sign their names at the end of documents to other important people. It was originally a cross that they would kiss after signing to signify that they were faithful to God and their King. Over the years though, it slanted into the X
Nova Scotia is Latin for 'New Scotland.'
The collecting of Beer mats is called Tegestology.
Even though it is widely attributed to him Shakespeare never actually used the word 'gadzooks'.
Only 2 blue moons (the saying 'only once in a blue moon ' refers to the occurrence of two full moons during one calendar month) are to occur between now and 2001. Those times are January 1999 and March 1999
"Naked" means to be unprotected. "Nude" means unclothed
Upper and lower case letters are named 'upper' and 'lower', because in the time when al original print had to be set in individual letters, the 'upper case' letters were stored in the case on top of the case stored smaller, 'lower case' letters
In the 40's, the Bich pen was changed to Bic for fear that Americans would pronounce it 'Bitch.'
Robert E. Lee, of the Confederate Army, remains the only person, to date, to have graduated from the West Point military academy without a single demerit.
All of the officers in the Confederate army were given copies of Les Miserables, by Victor Hugo, to carry with them at all times. Robert E. Lee, among others, believed that the book symbolized their cause. Both revolts were defeated.
The ancient Etruscans painted women white and men red in the wall paintings they used to decorate tombs.
Dismas and Gestas were the names of the two thieves crucified with Jesus.
The Eygptian god of the moon and knowledge, Thoth, has the head of an ibis. Source: Mike Joffe
During the American revolution, inflation was so great that the price of corn rose 10,000%, the price of wheat 14,000%, the price of flour 15,000%, and the price of beef 33,000%. Source: "2201 Fascinating Facts"
Crude oil was being drilled for in ancient China. In the 6th century it was recorded that hollow bamboo rods were driven into the ground in search of brine to provide salt for cattle. In the process, they also came across natural gas and flammable petroleum, which they used themselves or sold for fuel. Source: "Reader's Digest Book of Facts"
Although you sometimes hear that Ferdinand Magellan was the first person to go around the world, he never did. He led the historic voyage that left Spain in 1519 with five ships under his command, but Magellan himself was killed in the Philippines by islanders in 1521. One of his ships completed the around-the-world trip, arriving in Spain in 1522 with a crew of eighteen -- but without Magellan. Source: "Knowledge in a Nutshell"
Dinner guests in medieval England were expected to bring their own knives to the table -- hosts did not provide them. The fork did not appear until the sixteenth century and knives-and-forks were not in general use in England until the seventeenth century. Source: "Isaac Asimov's Book of Facts"
During the Second World War the American automobile industry produced a grand total of 139 cars. Instead, that huge industrial capacity had been transformed into the "arsenal of democracy," turning out, in breathtaking volumes, the material that allowed the Allies to win the war. The Ford Motor Company alone had more military production than the entire Italian economy in the war years. Source: "American Heritage" magazine
The saying "it's so cold out there it could freeze the balls off a brass monkey" came from when they had old cannons like ones used in the Civil War. The cannon balls were stacked in a pyramid formation, called a brass monkey. When it got extremely cold outside they would crack and break off... Thus the saying.
Playing cards were issued to British pilots in WW II. If captured, they could be soaked in water and unfolded to reveal a map for escape.
Jersey (in the Channel Islands, UK) was the only place that the Nazi's occupied in Great Britain during WorldWar II.
The only two Southern state capitals not occuppied by Northern troops during the American Civil War were Austin, Texas and Tallahasse, Florida.
Armored knights raised their visors to identify themselves when they rode past their king. This custom has become the modern military salute.
The Battle of Bunker Hill was fought at neighboring Breed's Hill.
"John has a long moustache" was the coded-signal used by the French Resistance in WW II to mobilize their forces once the Allies had landed on the Normandy beaches.
The Enola Gay was the name of the B-29 bomber that dropped the atom bomb on Hiroshima.
The Bockscar was the name of the B-29 bomber that dropped the atom bomb on Nagisaki.
On October 7, Chicago was hit by the latest and biggest of several fires of an unusually dry summer and fall. Before the blaze was extinguished, fifteen hours later, twenty acres were destroyed and damage was estimated at millions of dollars. It was the worst fire in Chicago's history.
The Great Chicago Fire of 1871 did start in a barn belonging to Patrick and Katherine O'Leary. The O'Leary's house was one of the few that survived the fire. The O'Leary's house had to be guarded by soldiers for weeks afterwards, however, because many enraged residents wanted to burn it down.
Napoleon constructed his battle plans in a sandbox.
Napoleon hit on the idea of using a semaphore telegraph -- visual messages from as far as they eye could see -- and gained a huge advantage over his enemies. He could send a message from Paris to Rome in four hours. Source: "Isaac Asimov's Book of Facts"
The dirt road that General Washington and his soldiers took to fight off General Clinton during the Battle of Monmouth was called the Burlington Path.
Original copy of the Declaration of Independence is lost. The copy in Washington D.C. is what is referred to as a holograph. That is a term for a handmade copy of a document and is not the same as a laser produced hologram.
The Declaration of Independence was written on hemp paper.
In the great fire of London in 1666 half of London was burnt down but only 6 people were injured
When Saigon fell the signal for all Americans to evacuate was Bing Crosby's "White Christmas" being played on the radio.
Ohio is listed as the 17th state in the U.S., but technically it is number 47. Until August 7, 1953, Congress forgot to vote on a resolution to admit Ohio to the Union.
Spiral staircases in medieval castles are running clockwise. This is because all knights used to be right-handed. When the intruding army would climb the stairs they would not be able to use their right hand which was holding the sword because of the difficulties in climbing the stairs. Left-handed knights would have had no troubles except left-handed people could never become knights because it was assumed that they were descendants of the devil
Medieval knights put shark skin on their sword handles to give them a more secure grip; they would dig the sharp scales into their palms.
October 4, 1957 is a historic date to be remembered, it is the day both "Leave it to Beaver" and the Russian satellite Sputnik 1 were launched.
Only two people signed the Declaration of Independence on July 4th, John Hancock and Charles Thomson. Most of the rest signed on August 2, but the last signature wasn't added until 5 years later.
Between 1947 and 1959, 42 nuclear devices were detonated in the Marshall Islands.
During WW II the city of Leningrad underwent a seventeen month German seige. Unable to access the city by roads, the Russians built a truck route across the ice on Lake Ladoga to get food and supplies to the citizens. (Thanks to Dan Murphy for the clarification.)
The first Ford cars had Dodge engines.
The Dodge brothers Horace and John were Jewish, that's why the first Dodge emblem had a star of David in it.
Studebaker was the only major car company to stop making cars while making a profit from them.
Studebaker still exists, but is now called Worthington.
Chrysler built B-29's that bombed Japan, Mitsubishi built Zeros that tried to shoot them down. Both companies now build cars in a joint plant call Diamond Star.
A winged penis was the city symbol of Pompeii, the ancient Roman resort town destroyed by Mt. Vesuvius' eruption.
Not all of West Virginia voted to go with the North.When the State of West Virginia was formed from Virginia in 1863 the three western counties in Virginia voted to go with West Virginia, but West Virginia didn't take them because they were poor. Instead they took three counties that voted to stay with Virginia, because they were richer and they had the B&O railroad. Those counties since split and are now 5, Jefferson, Hampshire, Berkley, Mineral, and Morgan.
The Roman emperor Caligula made his horse a senator.
The United States has never lost a war in which mules were used.
The beautiful, simple furniture made by the Shaker religious sect in New England was designed so that it could be hung on pegs around the walls. Every evening members of the sect tidied up in this way in case the night should be disturbed suddenly by the Second Coming of the Lord. Only the larger pieces of furniture, such as chests and tables, were left on the floor. Source: "Reader's Digest Book of Facts"
Until the Middle Ages, underwater divers near the Mediterranean coastline collected golden strands from the pen shell, which used the strands to hold itself in place. Called byssus, the strands were woven into a luxury textile, a "cloth of gold," and made into ladies' gloves so fine a pair could be packed into an empty walnut shell. Examples of this lost art exist today in some museums, and the cloth retains its color and softness. Source: "Isaac Asimov's Book of Facts"
A 1,200-pound horse eats about seven times it's own weight each year.
A bird requires more food in proportion to its size than a baby or a cat.
A capon is a castrated rooster.
A chameleon can move its eyes in two directions at the same time.
A chameleon's tongue is twice the length of its body.
A chimpanzee can learn to recognize itself in a mirror, but monkeys can't.
A Cornish game hen is really a young chicken, usually 5 to 6 weeks of age, that weighs no more than 2 pounds.
A cow gives nearly 200,000 glasses of milk in her lifetime.
A father Emperor penguin withstands the Antarctic cold for 60 days or more to protect his eggs, which he keeps on his feet, covered with a feathered flap. During this entire time he doesn't eat a thing. Most father penguins lose about 25 pounds while they wait for their babies to hatch. Afterward, they feed the chicks a special liquid from their throats. When the mother penguins return to care for the young, the fathers go to sea to eat and rest.
A father sea catfish keeps the eggs of his young in his mouth until they are ready to hatch. He will not eat until his young are born, which may take several weeks.
A female mackerel lays about 500,000 eggs at one time.
A Hindu temple dedicated to the rat goddess Karni Mata in Deshnoke, India, houses more than 20,000 rats.
A Holstein's spots are like a fingerprint or snowflake. No two cows have exactly the same pattern of spots.
A leech is a worm that feeds on blood. It will pierce its victim's skin, fill itself with three to four times its own body weight in blood, and will not feed again for months. Leeches were once used by doctors to drain "bad blood" from sick patients.
A newborn kangaroo is about 1 inch in length.
A normal cow's stomach has four compartments: the rumen, the recticulum (storage area), the omasum (where water is absorbed), and the abomasum ( the only compartment with digestive juices).
A polecat is not a cat. It is a nocturnal European weasel.
A quarter of the horses in the US died of a vast virus epidemic in 1872.
A rat can last longer without water than a camel can.
A single little brown bat can catch 1,200 mosquitoes-sized insects in just one hour.
A woodpecker can peck twenty times a second.
A zebra is white with black stripes.
After mating, the male Surinam Toad affixes the female's eggs to her back, where her spongy flesh will swell and envelope them. When the froglets hatch, they leave behind holes in their mother's flesh that they will remain sheltered in until large enough to fend for themselves.
All clams start out as males; some decide to become females at some point in their lives.
All pet hamsters are descended from a single female wild golden hamster found with a litter of 12 young in Syria in 1930.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles away, and warns off intruders or reunites scattered members of the pride.
An albatross can sleep while it flies. It apparently dozes while cruising at 25 mph.
An electric eel can produce a shock of up to 650 volts.
An iguana can stay under water for 28 minutes.
An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.
Ancient Egyptians believed that "Bast" was the mother of all cats on Earth. They also believed that cats were sacred animals.
Animal gestation periods: the shortest is the American opossum, which bears its young 12 to 13 days after conception; the longest is the Asiatic elephant, taking 608 days, or just over 20 months.
At nearly 50 percent fat, whale milk has around 10 times the fat content of human milk, which helps calves achieve some serious growth spurts - as much as 200 pounds per day.
At the end of the Beatles' song "A Day in the Life", an ultrasonic whistle, audible only to dogs, was recorded by Paul McCartney for his Shetland sheepdog.
Beaver teeth are so sharp that Native Americans once used them as knife blades.
Between 260 and 300 million turkeys are slaughtered annually in the United States, according to USDA statistics. Of these, approximately 45 million are killed for Thanksgiving, and 22 million are killed for Christmas.
Bird eggs come in a wide variety of sizes. The largest egg from a living bird belongs to the ostrich. It is more than 2,000 times larger than the smallest bird egg, which is produced by the hummingbird. Ostrich eggs are about 7.1 inches long, 5.5 inches wide and typically weigh 2.7 pounds. Hummingbird eggs are half an inch long, a third of an inch wide and weigh half a gram, or less than one-fifty-fifth of an ounce.
Brown eggs come from hens with red feathers and red ear lobes; white eggs come from hens with white feathers and white ear lobes. Shell color is determined by the breed of hen and has no effect on its quality, nutrients or flavor.
By feeding hens certain dyes they can be made to lay eggs with varicolored yolks.
Camel milk does not curdle.
Camels have three eyelids to protect themselves from blowing sand.
Carnivorous animals will not eat another animal that has been hit by a lightning strike.
Cat scratch disease, a benign but sometimes painful disease of short duration, is caused by a bacillus. Despite its name, the disease can be transmitted by many kinds of scratches besides those of cats.
Catfish have 100,000 taste buds.
Catnip can affect lions and tigers as well as house cats. It excites them because it contains a chemical that resembles an excretion of the dominant female's urine.
Certain frogs can be frozen solid then thawed and continue living.
Chameleons can move their eyes in two different directions at the same time.
Chameleons can reel in food from a distance as far away as more than two and a half times their body lengths.
Cheetahs make a chirping sound that is much like a bird's chirp or a dog's yelp. The sound is so an intense, it can be heard a mile away.
Cojo, the 1st gorilla born in captivity, was born at the Columbus Zoo, in Ohio, in 1956 and weighed 3 1/4 pounds.
Crocodiles swallow large stones that stay permanently in their bellies. It's been suggested these are used for ballast in diving.
Despite its reputation for being finicky, the average cat consumes about 127,750 calories a year, nearly 28 times its own weight in food and the same amount again in liquids. In case you were wondering, cats cannot survive on a vegetarian diet.
Developed in Egypt about 5,000 years ago, the greyhound breed was known before the ninth century in England, where it was bred by aristocrats to hunt such small game as hares.
Dolphins sleep at night just below the surface of the water. They frequently rise to the surface for air.
Domesticated turkeys (farm raised) cannot fly. Wild turkeys can fly for short distances at up to 55 miles per hour. Wild turkeys are also fast on the ground, running at speeds of up to 25 miles per hour.
Dragonflies are one of the fastest insects, flying 50 to 60 mph.
During World War II, the very first bomb dropped on Berlin by the Allies killed the only elephant in the Berlin Zoo.
Elephant tusks grow throughout an elephant's life and can weigh more than 200 pounds. Among Asian elephants, only the males have tusks. Both sexes of African elephants have tusks.
Elephants can communicate using sounds that are below the human hearing range: between 14 and 35 hertz.
Every year, $1.5 billion is spent on pet food. This is four times the amount spent on baby food.
Felix the Cat is the first cartoon character to ever have been made into a balloon for a parade.
Female chickens, or hens, need about 24 to 26 hours to produce one egg. Thirty minutes later they start the process all over again. In addition to the half-hour rests, some hens rest every three to five days and others rest every 10 days.
George Washington's favorite horse was named Lexington. Napoleon's favorite was Marengo. U.S. Grant had three favorite horses: Egypt, Cincinnati, and Jeff Davis.
German Shepherds bite humans more than any other breed of dog.
Goldfish lose their color if they are kept in dim light or are placed in a body of running water, such as a stream.
Hippos have killed more than 400 people in Africa - more than any other wild animal.
Howler monkeys are the noisiest land animals. Their calls can be heard over 2 miles away.
Human tapeworms can grow up to 22.9m.
Hummingbirds are the smallest birds - so tiny that one of their enemies is an insect, the praying mantis.
In its entire lifetime, the average worker bee produces 1/12th teaspoon of honey.
Infant beavers are called kittens.
It takes 35 to 65 minks to produce the average mink coat. The numbers for other types of fur coats are: beaver - 15; fox - 15 to 25; ermine - 150; chinchilla - 60 to 100.
It takes a lobster approximately seven years to grow to be one pound.
It takes forty minutes to hard boil an ostrich egg.
Korea's poshintang - dog meat soup - is a popular item on summertime menus, despite outcry from other nations. The soup is believed to cure summer heat ailments, improve male virility, and improve women's complexions.
Large kangaroos cover more than 30 feet with each jump.
Lassie was played by several male dogs, despite the female name, because male collies were thought to look better on camera. The main "actor" was named Pal.
Lassie, the TV collie, first appeared in a 1930s short novel titled Lassie Come-Home written by Eric Mowbray Knight. The dog in the novel was based on Knight's real life collie, Toots.
Lions are the only truly social cat species, and usually every female in a pride, ranging from 5 to 30 individuals, is closely related.
Lovebirds are small parakeets who live in pairs. Male and female lovebirds look alike, but most other male birds have brighter colors than the females.
Macaroni, Gentoo, Chinstrap and Emperor are types of penguins.
Mockingbirds can imitate any sound from a squeaking door to a cat meowing.
Molerats are the only eusocial vertebrates known to man. This means that these mammals live in colonies similar to those of ants and termites, with a single fertile queen giving birth to nonreproductive workers and soldiers. Molerats are also famous for their incredibly powerful jaws, the muscles of which constitute 25% of their body mass. Baby molerats are raised on a diet of their older sibling's fecal pellets, emitting a special cry when hungry to summon a worker.
Moles are able to tunnel through 300 feet of earth in a day.
Of all known forms of animals life ever to inhabit the Earth, only about 10 percent still exist today.
On average, pigs live for about 15 years.
Owls have eyeballs that are tubular in shape, because of this, they cannot move their eyes.
Parrots, most famous of all talking birds, rarely acquire a vocabulary of more than twenty words, however Tymhoney Greys and African Greys have been know to carry vocabularies in excess of 100 words.
Pet parrots can eat virtually any common "people-food" except for chocolate and avocados. Both of these are highly toxic to the parrot and can be fatal.
Pigs, walruses and light-colored horses can be sunburned.
Prairie dogs are not dogs. A prairie dog is a kind of rodent.
Rats are omnivorous, eating nearly any type of food, including dead and dying members of their own species.
Rats can't throw-up.
Sharks apparently are the only animals that never get sick. As far as is known, they are immune to every known disease including cancer.
Snails produce a colorless, sticky discharge that forms a protective carpet under them as they travel along. The discharge is so effective that they can crawl along the edge of a razor without cutting themselves.
Snakes are immune to their own poison.
Some baby giraffes are more than six feet tall at birth.
Swans are the only birds with penises.
Tapeworms range in size from about 0.04 inch to more than 50 feet in length.
The "caduceus" the classical medical symbol of two serpents wrapped around a staff - comes from an ancient Greek legend in which snakes revealed the practice of medicine to human beings.
The 1st buffalo ever born in captivity was born at Chicago's Lincoln Park Zoo in 1884.
The American Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) was formed in 1866.
The anaconda, one of the world's largest snakes, gives birth to its young instead of laying eggs.
The average adult male ostrich, the world's largest living bird, weighs up to 345 pounds.
The biggest members of the cat family are Siberian and Bengal tigers, which can reach over 600 pounds.
The blood of mammals is red, the blood of insects is yellow, and the blood of lobsters is blue.
The bloodhound is the only animal whose evidence is admissible in an American court.
The blue whale is the loudest animal on Earth. The call of the blue whale reaches levels up to 188 decibels. This extraordinarily loud whistle can be heard for hundreds of miles underwater. The second-loudest animal on Earth is the Howler Monkey.
The bones of a pigeon weigh less than its feathers.
The calories burned daily by the sled dogs running in Alaska's annual Iditarod race average 10,000. The 1,149-mile race commemorates the 1925 "Race for Life" when 20 volunteer mushers relayed medicine from Anchorage to Nome to battle a children's diphtheria epidemic.
The Canary Islands were not named for a bird called a canary. They were named after a breed of large dogs. The Latin name was Canariae insulae - "Island of Dogs."
The cat lover is an ailurophile, while a cat hater is an ailurophobe.
The catgut formerly used as strings in tennis rackets and musical instruments does not come from cats. Catgut actually comes from sheep, hogs, and horses.
The cheetah is the only cat in the world that can't retract its claws.
The Chinese, during the reign of Kublai Khan, used lions on hunting expeditions. They trained the big cats to pursue and drag down massive animals - from wild bulls to bears - and to stay with the kill until the hunter arrived.
The elephant, as a symbol of the US Republican Party, was originated by cartoonist Thomas Nast and first presented in 1874.
The English Romantic poet Lord Byron was so devastated upon the death of his beloved Newfoundland, whose name was Boatswain, that he had inscribed upon the dog's gravestone the following: "Beauty without vanity, strength without insolence, courage without ferocity, and all the virtues of man without his vices."
The expression "three dog night" originated with the Eskimos and means a very cold night - so cold that you have to bed down with three dogs to keep warm.
The fastest bird is the Spine-tailed swift, clocked at speeds of up to 220 miles per hour.
The fastest -moving land snail, the common garden snail, has a speed of 0.0313 mph.
The first house rats recorded in America appeared in Boston in 1775.
The giant squid is the largest creature without a backbone. It weighs up to 2.5 tons and grows up to 55 feet long. Each eye is a foot or more in diameter.
The harmless Whale Shark, holds the title of largest fish, with the record being a 59 footer captured in Thailand in 1919.
The hummingbird is the only bird that can hover and fly straight up, down, or backward!
The hummingbird, the loon, the swift, the kingfisher, and the grebe are all birds that cannot walk.
The Kiwi, national bird of New Zealand, can't fly. It lives in a hole in the ground, is almost blind, and lays only one egg each year. Despite this, it has survived for more than 70 million years.
The largest animal ever seen alive was a 113.5 foot, 170-ton female blue whale.
The largest bird egg in the world today is that of the ostrich. Ostrich eggs are from 6 to 8 inches long. Because of their size and the thickness of their shells, they take 40 minutes to hard-boil.
The largest Great White Shark ever caught measured 37 feet and weighed 24,000 pounds. It was found in a herring weir in New Brunswick in 1930.
The largest pig on record was a Poland-China hog named Big Bill, who weighed 2,552 lbs.
The last member of the famous Bonaparte family, Jerome Napoleon Bonaparte, died in 1945, of injuries sustained from tripping over his dog's leash.
The male penguin incubates the single egg laid by his mate. During the two month period he does not eat, and will lose up to 40% of his body weight.
The most frequently seen birds at feeders across North America last winter were the Dark-eyed Junco, House Finch and American goldfinch, along with downy woodpeckers, blue jays, mourning doves, black-capped chickadees, house sparrows, northern cardinals and european starlings.
The mouse is the most common mammal in the US.
The name of the dog from "The Grinch Who Stole Christmas" is Max.
The name of the dog on the Cracker Jack box is Bingo.
The only dog to ever appear in a Shakespearean play was Crab in The Two Gentlemen of Verona
The only domestic animal not mentioned in the Bible is the cat.
The Pacific Giant Octopus, the largest octopus in the world, grows from the size of pea to a 150 pound behemoth potentially 30 feet across in only two years, its entire life-span.
The penalty for killing a cat, 4,000 years ago in Egypt, was death.
The phrase "raining cats and dogs" originated in 17th Century England. During heavy downpours of rain, many of these poor animals unfortunately drowned and their bodies would be seen floating in the rain torrents that raced through the streets. The situation gave the appearance that it had literally rained "cats and dogs" and led to the current expression.
The pigmy shrew - a relative of the mole - is the smallest mammal in North America. It weighs 1/14 ounce - less than a dime.
The poison-arrow frog has enough poison to kill about 2,200 people.
The poisonous copperhead snake smells like fresh cut cucumbers.
The Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History houses the world's largest shell collection, some 15 million specimens. A smaller museum in Sanibel, Florida owns a mere 2 million shells and claims to be the worlds only museum devoted solely to mollusks.
The term "dog days" has nothing to do with dogs. It dates back to Roman times, when it was believed that Sirius, the Dog Star, added its heat to that of the sun from July3 to August 11, creating exceptionally high temperatures. The Romans called the period dies caniculares, or "days of the dog."
The turbot fish lays approximately 14 million eggs during its lifetime.
The turkey was named for what was wrongly thought to be its country of origin.
The underside of a horse's hoof is called a frog. The frog peels off several times a year with new growth.
The viscera of Japanese abalone can harbor a poisonous substance which causes a burning, stinging, prickling and itching over the entire body. It does not manifest itself until exposure to sunlight - if eaten outdoors in sunlight, symptoms occur quickly and suddenly.
The world record frog jump is 33 feet 5.5 inches over the course of 3 consecutive leaps, achieved in May 1977 by a South African sharp-nosed frog called Santjie.
The world's largest mammal, the blue whale, weighs 50 tons at birth. Fully grown, it weighs as much as 150 tons.
The world's largest rodent is the Capybara. An Amazon water hog that looks like a guinea pig, it can weigh more than 100 pounds.
The world's smallest mammal is the bumblebee bat of Thailand, weighing less than a penny.
There are around 2,600 different species of frogs. They live on every continent except Antarctica.
There are more than 100 million dogs and cats in the United States. Americans spend more than 5.4 billion dollars on their pets each year.
There is no single cat called the panther. The name is commonly applied to the leopard, but it is also used to refer to the puma and the jaguar. A black panther is really a black leopard.
Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur.
Turkeys originated in North and Central America, and evidence indicates that they have been around for over 10 million years.
Unlike most fish, electric eels cannot get enough oxygen from water. Approximately every five minutes, they must surface to breathe, or they will drown. Unlike most fish, they can swim both backwards and forwards.
Whales and dolphins can literally fall half asleep. Their brain hemispheres alternate sleeping, so the animals can continue to surface and breathe.
When a female horse and male donkey mate, the offspring is called a mule, but when a male horse and female donkey mate, the offspring is called a hinny.
When the Black Death swept across England one theory was that cats caused the plague. Thousands were slaughtered. Ironically, those that kept their cats were less affected, because they kept their houses clear of the real culprits, rats.
Worldwide, goats provide people with more meat and milk than any other domestic animal.
Although construction of the Notre Dame Cathedral in Strasbourg started in 1015, it was not until 1439 that the spire was completed.
Ancient Chinese artists would never paint pictures of women’s feet.
At the age of 26, Michelangelo began sculpting his monumental statue of David. He finished it seventeen months later, in January, 1504.
Currently the world's tallest building is the Petronas Tower in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The Petronas Towers measures 1,483ft.
During a severe windstorm or rainstorm the Empire State Building may sway several feet to either side.
England's Stonehenge is 1500 years older than Rome's Colosseum.
Evard Ericksen sculpted “The Little Mermaid” statue which is located in Copenhagen harbor.
First occupied by John Adams in 1800, the White House has witnessed one presidential wedding, five first-family weddings, 11 births, and seven presidential funerals. Recent additions include John F. Kennedy’s swimming pool, Richard Nixon’s bowling alley, and Bill Clinton’s running track
Frederic-August Bartholdi sculpted The Statue of Liberty.
Hoover Dam is 726 feet tall and 660 feet thick at its base. Enough rock was excavated in its construction to build the Great Wall of China. Contrary to old wives' tales, no workers were buried in the dam's concrete.
If any of the heads on Mt. Rushmore had a body, it would be nearly 500 feet tall.
In 1925, the 1st motel -- the "Motel Inn" -- opened in San Luis Obispo, California.
Jayne Mansfield decorated her "Pink Palace" by writing to 1,500 furniture and building suppliers and asking for free samples. She told the donors they could then brag that their goods were in her outlandish mansion. The pitch worked, and Jayne received over $150,000 worth of free merchandise.
Leonardo DaVinci began painting the Mona Lisa in 1503. He was still working on the painting when he emigrated to France in 1516 and is believed to have finished it three years later, just before he died. The painting has remained in France ever since and is owned by the state. It once hung in Napoleon's bedroom.
Nobody is buried in Grant’s tomb. President & Mrs. Grant are entombed there. A body is buried only when it is placed in the ground and covered with dirt.
On July 28th, 1945, a US Army bomber crashed into the 79th floor of New York's Empire State Building, killing 14 people.
Pablo Picasso's career lasted seventy-eight years, from 1895 until his death in 1973.
The Eiffel Tower is 984 feet high.
The Eiffel Tower receives a fresh coat of 300 tons of reddish-green paint every seven years.
The estimated weight of the Great Pyramid of Egypt is 6,648,000 tons.
The extended right arm of the Statue of Liberty is 42 feet long.
The first footprints at Grauman's Chinese Theater (now Mann's Chinese Theater), were made by Norma Talmadge in 1927. Legend has it that she accidentally stepped in wet concrete outside the building. Since then, over 180 stars have been immortalized, along with their hands and feet and even noses (Jimmy Durante).
The great Gothic cathedral of Milan was started in 1386, and wasn’t completed until 1805.
The Hoover Dam was built to last 2,000 years. The concrete in it will not even be fully cured for another 500 years.
The largest movie theater in the world, Radio City Music Hall in New York City, opened in December, 1932. It originally had 5,945 seats
The largest stained-glass window in the world is at Kennedy International Airport in New York City. It can be seen on the American Airlines terminal building and measures 300 feet long by 23 feet high
The Mona Lisa, by daVinci, is 2’6” by 1’9”.
The Museum of Modern Art in New York City hung Matisse's ‘Le Bateau’ upside-down for 47 days before an art student noticed the error.
The official name of the St. Louis Gateway Arch is "The Jefferson National Expansion Memorial." The Gateway Arch looks taller than it is wider, but it is exactly 630 feet by 630 feet.
The only one of his sculptures that Michelangelo signed was the “The Pieta,” completed in 1500.
The painting, “American Gothic” depicts the sister and the dentist of artist Grant Wood as rural farm folk.
The Statue of Liberty arrived in New York City in 1885 aboard the French ship "Isere."
The Statue of Liberty weighs 225 tons.
The Taj Mahal was commissioned in 1630 by Shah Jehan to honor his wife Mumtaz, who died in childbirth.
The three primary colors are red, yellow and blue. The three secondary colors are green, orange and purple.
The world's largest art gallery is the Winter Palace and Hermitage in St. Petersburg, Russia. Visitors would have to walk 15 miles to see the 322 galleries which house nearly 3 million works of art.
The world's largest Gothic cathedral is in new York City. It is the Cathedral of St. John the Divine on Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street. The cathedral measures 601 feet long, 146 feet wide, and has a transept measuring 320 feet from end to end.
There are 1,792 steps to the top of the Eiffel Tower.
There are 132 rooms in the US White House.
There are 403 steps from the foundation to the top of the torch in the Statue of Liberty.
Until the time of Michelangelo, many sculptors colored their statues, and most from ancient Greece and Rome at one time had been painted or “polychromed.” Over the course of years, rain washed the colors off the marble.
Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln, and Teddy Roosevelt are the four US presidents whose faces are carved on Mt. Rushmore.
Work on St. Peter’s Basilica, Rome, began in 1506. Construction took over a century, reaching completion in 1612.
X-ray technology has shown there are 3 different versions of the Mona Lisa under the visible one.

"The Mouse Trap," by Agatha Christie is the longest running play in history.
All of the roles in Shakespeare's plays were originally acted by men and boys. In England at that time, it wasn't proper for females to appear on stage.
All the proceeds earned from James M. Barrie's book "Peter Pan" were bequeathed to the Great Ormond Street Hospital for the Sick Children in London.
Barbara Bush's book about her English Springer Spaniel, Millie's book, was on the bestseller list for 29 weeks. Millie was the most popular "First Dog" in history.
Bilbo Baggins was born on September 22 1290.
Brabara Cartland is the world's top-selling author with over 500 million copies sold.
Cinderella's slippers were originally made out of fur. The story was changed in the 1600s by a translator. It was the left shoe that Aschenputtel (Cinderella) lost at the stairway, when the prince tried to follow her.
Dr. Seuss wrote "Green Eggs and Ham" after his editor dared him to write a book using fewer than 50 different words.
Edgar Allan Poe introduced mystery fiction's first fictional detective, Auguste C. Dupin, in his 1841 story, "The Murders in the Rue Morgue."
Frank Baum named "Oz" after a file cabinet in his office. One cabinet was labeled "A to N," and the second was labeled "O to Z."
Ghosts appear in 4 Shakespearian plays; Julius Caesar, Richard III, Hamlet and Macbeth.
Harriet Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was published March 20, 1852. It was the first American novel to sell one million copies.
John Milton used 8,000 different words in his poem, "Paradise Lost."
Margaret Mitchell wrote Gone with the Wind between 1926 and 1929. In her early drafts, the main character was named "Pansy O'Hara" and the O'Hara plantation we know as Tara was called "Fountenoy Hall."
Of the 2200 persons quoted in the current edition of "Bartlett's Familiar Quotations," only 164 are women.
Professor Moriarity was Sherlock Holmes' archenemy.
Sherlock Holmes never said 'Elementary, my dear Watson.'
Sherlock Holmes, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's brilliant detective, arrived on the mystery scene in the late nineteenth century in "A Study in Scarlet" (1887).
The occupations of the three men in a tub were butcher, baker, and candlestick maker.
The original story from Tales of 1001 Arabian Nights begins, 'Aladdin was a little Chinese boy.'
The Three Musketeers names are Porthos, Athos, and Aramis (D'Artagnan joins them later.)
A cockroach can live for up to a week without a head.
A typical bed usually houses over 6 billion dust mites.
Amazon ants (red ants found in the western U.S.) steal the larvae of other ants to keep as slaves. The slave ants build homes for and feed the Amazon ants, who cannot do anything but fight. They depend completely on their slaves for survival.
An adult bedbug can survive up to one year without feeding.
An infestation of head lice is called pediculosis.
Ants are social insects and live in colonies which may have as many as 500,000 individuals.
Ants don't sleep.
Aphids are born pregnant without the benefit of sex. Aphids can give birth 10 days after being born themselves.
Australian termites have been known to build mounds twenty feet high and at least 100 feet wide.
Dragonflies are one of the fastest insects, flying 50 to 60 mph.
Each year, insects eat 1/3 of the Earth's food crop.
In its entire lifetime, the average worker bee produces 1/12th teaspoon of honey.
Mosquitoes dislike citronella because it irritates their feet.
Mosquitoes prefer children to adults, and blondes to brunettes.
No two spider webs are the same.
Only female mosquitoes bite. Females need the protein from blood to produce their eggs.
Only full-grown male crickets can chirp.
The animal responsible for the most human deaths world-wide is the mosquito.
The blood of mammals is red, the blood of insects is yellow, and the blood of lobsters is blue.
The buzz that you hear when a bee approaches is the sound of its four wings moving at 11,400 strokes per minute. Bees fly an average of 15 miles per hour.
The disease-carrying mosquito, delivering encephalitis, the West Nile virus, malaria, and Dengue fever, is by far the deadliest beast in the animal world. The World Health Organization says mosquitos cause more than 2 million deaths a year worldwide. Another insect,
The honeybee kills more people world-wide than all the poisonous snakes combined.
The largest cockroach on record is one measured at 3.81 inches in length.
The largest insect egg belongs to the Malaysian jungle nymph, a sticklike insect, and measures about 1.3 centimeters long — larger than a peanut! (Some insects, mainly mantises and cockroaches, lay egg cases that are larger, but they contain about 200 individual eggs.)
The leap of an average flea is equivalent to a 100 pound man leaping 1,000 and enduring a g-force of 20,000 pounds with an acceleration greater than that of a space shuttle.
The tsetse fly kills another 66,000 people annually.
The venom of a female black widow spider is more potent than that of a rattlesnake.
The world's smallest winged insect, the Tanzanian parasitic wasp, is smaller than the eye of a housefly.
There are more insects in one square mile of rural land than there are human beings on the entire earth.
There are more than 2,500 varieties of mosquito.
There are more than 900,000 known species of insects in the world.
When a queen bee lays the fertilized eggs that will develop into new queens, only one of the newly laid queens actually survives. The first new queen that emerges from her cell destroys all other queens in their cells and, thereafter, reigns alone.
When ants find food, they lay down a chemical trail, called a pheromone, so that other ants can find their way from the nest to the food source.
Worker ants may live seven years and the queen may live as long as 15 years.
You're more likely to be a target for mosquitoes if you consume bananas.
A 1.5 oz. milk chocolate bar has only 220 calories.
A 1.75 oz. serving of potato chips has 230 calories.
A recent study indicates when men crave food, they tend to crave fat and salt. When women crave food, they tend to desire chocolate.
American and Russian space flights have always included chocolate.
American chocolate manufacturers use about 1.5 billion pounds of milk -- only surpassed by the cheese and ice cream industries.
Americans consumed over 3.1 billion pounds of chocolate in 2001, which is almost half of the total world's production.
Aztec emperor Montezuma drank 50 golden goblets of hot chocolate every day. It was thick, dyed red and flavored with chili peppers.
Bittersweet chocolate is what is usually called for in baking. It contains more chocolate liquor (at least 35%) and less sugar than sweet chocolate. Semisweet chocolate contains 15% - 35% chocolate liquor.
"Coffee should be black as hell, strong as death, and as sweet as love" - Turkish Proverb
52% of Americans drink coffee.
A acre of coffee trees can produce up to 10,000 pounds of coffee cherries. That amounts to approximately 2000 pounds of beans after hulling or milling.
A scientific report form the University of California found that the steam rising from a cup of coffee contains the same amounts of antioxidants as three oranges. The antioxidants are heterocyclic compounds which prevents cancer and heart disease. It's good for you!
Adding sugar to coffee is believed to have started in 1715, in the court of King Louis XIV, the French monarch.
Advertisements for coffee in London in 1657 claimed that the beverage was a cure for scurvy, gout and other ills.
After the decaffeinating process, processing companies no longer throw the caffeine away; they sell it to pharmaceutical companies.
After they are roasted, and when the coffee beans begin to cool, they release about 700 chemical substances that make up the vaporizing aromas.
An arabica coffee tree can produce up to 12 pounds of coffee a year, depending on soil and climate.
Australians consume 60% more coffee than tea, a sixfold increase since 1940.
Beethoven who was a coffee lover, was so particular about his coffee that he always counted 60 beans each cup when he prepared his brew.
Before roasting, some green coffee beans are stored for years, and experts believe that certain beans improve with age, when stored properly.
Before the first French cafe in the late 1700's, coffee was sold by street vendors in Europe, in the Arab fashion. The Arabs were the forerunners of the sidewalk espresso carts of today.
Brazil accounts for almost 1/3 of the world's coffee production, producing over 3-1/3 billion pounds of coffee each year.
By 1850, the manual coffee grinder found its way to most upper middle class kitchens of the U.S.
Caffeine is on the International Olympic Committee list of prohibited substances. Athletes who test positive for more than 12 micrograms of caffeine per milliliter of urine may be banned from the Olympic Games. This level may be reached after drinking about 5 cups of coffee.
Citrus has been added to coffee for several hundred years.
Coffee as a medicine reached its highest and lowest point in the 1600's in England. Wild medical contraptions to administer a mixture of coffee and an assortment of heated butter, honey, and oil, became treatments for the sick. Soon tea replaced coffee as the national beverage.
Coffee beans are similar to grapes that produce wine in that they are affected by the temperature, soil conditions, altitude, rainfall, drainage and degree of ripeness when picked.
Coffee is generally roasted between 400F and 425F. The longer it is roasted, the darker the roast. Roasting time is usually from ten to twenty minutes.
Coffee is graded according to 3 criteria: Bean quality (Altitude and Species) Quality of preparation Size of bean
Coffee is grown commercially in over forty-five countries throughout the world.
Coffee is the most popular beverage worldwide with over 400 billion cups consumed each year.
Coffee lends its popularity to the fact that just about all flavors mix well with it.
Coffee Recipe from: 'Kitchen Directory and American Housewife' (1844)
"Use a tablespoonful ground to a pint of boiling water [less than a quarter of what we would use today].
Boil in tin pot twenty to twenty-five minutes. If boiled longer it will not taste fresh and lively.
Let stand four or five minutes to settle, pour off grounds into a coffee pot or urn.
Put fish skin or isinglass size of a nine-pence in pot when put on to boil or else the white and shell of half an egg to a couple of quarts of coffee."
Coffee represents 75% of all the caffeine consumed in the United States.
Coffee sacks are usually made of hemp and weigh approximately 132 pounds when they are full of green coffee beans. It takes over 600,000 beans to fill a coffee sack.
Coffee trees are evergreen and grow to heights above 15 feet but are normally pruned to around 8 feet in order to facilitate harvesting.
Coffee trees are self-pollinating
Coffee trees produce highly aromatic, short-lived flowers producing a scent between jasmine and orange. These blossoms produce cranberry-sized coffee cherries. It takes four to five years to yield a commercial harvest.
Coffee was first known in Europe as Arabian Wine.
Coffee, along with beer and peanut butter, is on the national list of the "ten most recognizable odors."
Coffee, as a world commodity, is second only to oil.
Commercially flavored coffee beans are flavored after they are roasted and partially cooled to around 100 degrees. Then the flavors applied, when the coffee beans' pores are open and therefore more receptive to flavor absorption.
Dark roasted coffees actually have LESS caffeine than medium roasts. The longer a coffee is roasted, the more caffeine burns off during the process.
During the American Civil War the Union soldiers were issued eight pounds of ground roasted coffee as part of their personal ration of one hundred pounds of food. And they had another choice: ten pounds of green coffee beans.
During World War II the U.S. government used 260 million pounds of instant coffee.
Finely grinding coffee beans and boiling them in water is still known as "Turkish Coffee." It is still made this way today in Turkey and Greece or anywhere else Turkish Coffee is served.
Flavored coffees are created after the roasting process by applying flavored oils specially created to use on coffee beans.
Frederick the great had his coffee made with champagne and a bit of mustard.
Hard Bean means the coffee was grown at an altitude above 5000 feet.
Hawaii is the only state of the United States in which coffee is commercially grown. Hawaii features an annual Kona Festival, coffee picking contest. Each year the winner becomes a state celebrity. In Hawaii coffee is harvested between November and April.
Hills Brothers Ground Vacuum Packed Coffee was first introduced in 1900.
Iced coffee in a can has been popular in Japan since 1945.
If you like your espresso coffee sweet, you should use granulated sugar, which dissolves more quickly, rather than sugar cubes; white sugar rather than brown sugar or candy; and real sugar rather than sweeteners which alter the taste of the coffee.
In 1670, Dorothy Jones of Boston was granted a license to sell coffee, and so became the first American coffee trader.
In 1727, as a result of seedlings smuggled from Paris, coffee plants first were cultivated in Brazil. Brazil is presently by far the world's largest producer of coffee.
In 1900, coffee was often delivered door-to-door in the United States, by horse-pulled wagons.
In 1990, over 4 billion dollars of coffee was imported into the United States.
In early America, coffee was usually taken between meals and after dinner.
In Italy, espresso is considered so essential to daily life that the price is regulated by the government.
In Japan, coffee shops are called Kissaten.
In Sumatra, workers on coffee plantations gather the world's most expensive coffee by following a gourmet marsupial who consumes only the choicest coffee beans. By picking through what he excretes, they obtain the world's most expensive coffee -'Kopi Luwak', which sells for over $100 per pound.
In the 14th century, the Arabs started to cultivate coffee plants. The first commercially grown and harvested coffee originated in the Arabian Peninsula near the port of Mocha.
In the 16th century, Turkish women could divorce their husbands if the man failed to keep his family's pot filled with coffee.
In the last three centuries, 90% of all people living in the Western world have switched from tea to coffee.
In the year 1763, there were over 200 coffee shops in Venice.
In the year 1790, there were two firsts in the United States; the first wholesale coffee roasting company, and the first newspaper advertisement featuring coffee.
Irish cream and Hazelnut are the most popular whole bean coffee flavorings.
It was during the 1600's that the first coffee mill made its debut in London.
Italians do not drink espresso during meals. It is considered to be a separate event and is given its own time.
Italy now has over 200,000 coffee bars, and still growing.
Jamaica Blue Mountain is often regarded as the best coffee in the world.
Japan ranks Number 3 in the world for coffee consumption.
Large doses of coffee can be lethal. Ten grams, or 100 cups over 4 hours, can kill the average human.
Latte is the Italian word for milk. So if you request a latte' in Italy, you'll be served a glass of milk.
Lloyd's of London began as Edward Lloyd's coffeehouse.
Milk as an additive to coffee became popular in the 1680's, when a French physician recommended that cafe au lait be used for medicinal purposes.
Modern coffee brewing methods use approximately 200° water.
October 1st is the official Coffee Day in Japan.
Only about 20% of harvested coffee beans are considered to be a premium bean of the highest quality.
Over 10,000 coffee cafes plus several thousand vending machines with both hot and cold coffee serve the needs of Tokyo alone.
Over 5 million people in Brazil are employed by the coffee trade. Most of those are involved with the cultivation and harvesting of more than 3 billion coffee plants.
Over 53 countries grow coffee worldwide, but all of them lie along the equator between the Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn.
Over-roasted coffee beans are very flammable during the roasting process.
Raw coffee beans, soaked in water and spices, are chewed like candy in many parts of Africa.
Regular coffee drinkers have about one-third less asthma symptoms than those non-coffee drinkers. So says a Harvard researcher who studied 20,000 people.
Retail espresso vendors report an increase in decaffeinated sales in the month of January due to New Year's resolutions to decrease caffeine intake.
Roasted coffee beans start to lose small amounts of flavor within two weeks. Ground coffee begins to lose its flavor in one hour. Brewed coffee and espresso begins to lose flavor within minutes.
Scandinavia has the world's highest per capita annual coffee consumption, 26.4 pounds. Italy has an annual consumption per capita of only 10 pounds.
Special studies conducted about the human body revealed it will usually absorb up to about 300 milligrams of caffeine at a given time. About 4 normal cups. Additional amounts are just cast off, providing no further stimulation. Also, the human body dissipates 20% of the caffeine in the system each hour.
The 2,000 Arabica coffee cherries it takes to make a roasted pound of coffee are normally picked by hand as they ripen. Since each cherry contains two beans, it takes about 4,000 Arabica beans to make a pound of roasted coffee.
The Arabica is the original coffee plant. It still grows wild in Ethiopia. The arabica coffee tree is an evergreen and in the wild will grow to a height between 14 and 20 feet.
The Arabs are generally believed to be the first to brew coffee.
The aroma and flavor derived from coffee is a result of the little beads of the oily substance called coffee essence, coffeol, or coffee oil. This is not an actual oil since it dissolves in water.
The average age of an Italian barista is 48 years old. A barista is a respected job title in Italy.
The average annual coffee consumption of the American adult is 26.7 gallons, or over 400 cups.
The average cup of coffee contains more than 1000 different chemical components, none of which is tasted in isolation but only as part of the overall flavor.
The Civil War in the United States elevated the popularity of coffee to new heights. Soldiers went to war with coffee beans as a primary ration.
The coffee filter was invented in 1908 by a German homemaker, Melitta Benz, when she lined a tin cup with blotter paper to filter the coffee grinds.
The coffee tree produces its first full crop when it is about 5 years old. Thereafter it produces consistently for 15 or 20 years.
The drip pot was invented by a Frenchman around 1800.
The Europeans first added chocolate to their coffee in the 1600's.
The first coffee drinkers, the Arabs, flavored their coffee with spices during the brewing process.
The first commercial espresso machine was manufactured in Italy in 1906.
The first Parisian cafe opened in 1689 to serve coffee.
The French philosopher, Voltaire, reportedly drank fifty cups of coffee a day.
The heavy tea tax imposed on the colonies in 1773, which caused the "Boston Tea Party," resulted in America switching from tea to coffee. Drinking coffee was an expression of freedom.
The largest coffee importer center in the U.S. is located in the city of New Orleans, LA.
The most widely accepted legend associated to the discovery of coffee is of the goatherder named Kaldi of Ethiopia. Around the year 800-850 A.D., Kaldi was amazed as he noticed his goats behaving in a frisky manner after eating the leaves and berries of a coffee shrub. And, of course, he had to try them!
The United States is the world's largest consumer of coffee, importing 16 to 20 million bags annually (2.5 million pounds), representing one-third of all coffee exported. More than half of the United States population consumes coffee. The typical coffee drinker has 3.4 cups of coffee per day. That translates into more than 450,000,000 cups of coffee daily.
The vast majority of coffee available to consumers are blends of different beans.
The word "tip" dates back to the old London coffeehouses. Conspicuously placed brass boxes etched with the inscription, "To Insure Promptness," encouraged customers to pay for efficient service. The resulting acronym, TIP, has become a byword.
There are about 30 milligrams of caffeine in the average chocolate bar, while a cup of coffee contains around 100 to 150 milligrams.
Those British are sophisticated people, in almost everything except their choice of coffee. They still drink instant ten-to-one over fresh brewed.
Turkey began to roast and grind the coffee bean in the 13th Century, and some 300 years later, in the 1500's, the country had become the chief distributor of coffee, with markets established in Egypt, Syria, Persia, and Venice, Italy.
Until the 18th century coffee was almost always boiled.
Until the late 1800's, people roasted their coffee at home. Popcorn poppers and stove-top frying pans were favored.
When a coffee seed is planted, it takes five years to yield consumable fruit.
William Penn purchased a pound of coffee in New York in 1683 for $4.68.
A body decomposes four times as fast in water than on land.
A dentist invented the Electric Chair.
A human head remains conscious for about 15 to 20 seconds after it is decapitated.
A murder is committed in the US every 23 minutes, which makes about 22852 murders each year.
About 100 people choke to death on ballpoint pens each year.
Ancient Egyptians shaved off their eyebrows to mourn the death of their cats.
Burials in America deposit 827,060 gallons of embalming fluid—formaldehyde, methanol, and ethanol—into the soil each year. Cremation pumps dioxins, hydrochloric acid, sulfur dioxide, and carbon dioxide into the air.
Cancer is the second leading cause of death in Orange County, California. Number one is heart disease.
Cockroaches can live for nine days without their heads, at which point they die of starvation.
Diabetes is the fourth leading cause of death in the U.S., accounting for about 180,000 deaths per year.
Dr. Alice Chase, who wrote 'Nutrition for Health', died of malnutrition. (not verified)
Each year in America there are about 300,000 deaths that can be attributed to obesity.
Followers of the Zoroastrian religion leave their dead atop a local tower, where vultures handle the nasty business of disposing the spiritually impure flesh.
In 1845, President Andrew Jackson's pet parrot was removed from his funeral for swearing.
In 1992, approximately 750 deaths occurred in the United States due to workplace violence.
In 19th-century Europe there was so much anecdotal evidence that living people were mistakenly declared dead that cadavers were laid out in "hospitals for the dead" while attendants awaited signs of putrefaction.
In Erwin, Tennessee an elephant was once hanged for murder.
In the Spanish Pyrenees, when a beekeeper dies, each of his bees is splashed with a drop of Black Ink.
In the United States, poisoning is the fourth leading cause of death among children.
Influenza caused over twenty-one million deaths in 1918.
Nutmeg is extremely poisonous if injected intravenously - it can kill you.
On average, people fear spiders more than they do dying. However, statistically you are more likely to be killed by a champagne cork than by the bite of a poisonous spider.
On average, right-handed people live 9 years longer than their left-handed counterparts.
Only one in two billion people will live to be 116 or older.
Over 2500 left handed people are killed each year from using products made for right handed people.
Over the last 50 years in the United States, approximately 9,000 people have died as a result of tornadoes, 5,000 as the result of floods, and 4,000 as the result of hurricanes.
The Buddhist priest and mystic, Kukai, who died on 23 April 835, is believed by his followers to have become a 'Buddha in his own body' by mummifying himself while still alive.
The leading cause of deaths for children between the ages of 1 and 4 are motor vehicle crashes.
The most extraordinary thing about the Tarim mummies of Xinjiang province in China is that these naturally-preserved bodies are not Chinese but Caucasian. Discovered in the Takla Makan desert, the mummies are dressed in what has been described as a 'Celtic tartan' style of clothing.
The practice of burying the dead may date back 350,000 years, as evidenced by a 45-foot-deep pit in Atapuerca, Spain, filled with the fossils of 27 hominids of the species Homo heidelbergensis, a possible ancestor of Neanderthals and modern humans.
The tiny poison arrow frog has enough poison to kill over 2200 people!
When a person dies, hearing is generally the last sense to go. The first sense lost is usually sight. Then follows taste, smell, and touch.
When Thomas Edison died in 1941; Henry Ford captured his last dying breath in a bottle.
When Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, leader of the Russian Revolution, died in 1924, his body was mummified and placed on display at the Kremlin wall in Moscow.
Actress Jayne Mansfield accidentally exhaled her breast out of her dress during the telecast of the Academy Awards in 1957.
Adjusting for inflation, Cleopatra, 1963, is the most expensive movie ever made to date (mid-1999). Its budget of $44 million is equivalent to 270 million 1999 dollars.
After six months at the off-Broadway New York Shakespeare Festival Theater, Hair opened at the Biltmore Theater in New York, in 1968. It was the first rock-musical to play on the Great White Way.
Although identified with Scotland, bagpipes are actually a very ancient instrument, introduced into the British Isles by the Romans.
As of 1996, Hee Haw holds the record for the longest running weekly first-run syndicated show in the history of television. It spanned over 4 decades, from the late '60s to the early '90s, airing every Saturday night at 7:00.
Because of TV censorship, actress Mariette Hartley was not allowed to show her belly button on Gene Roddenberry's STAR TREK [episode #78 "All Our Yesterdays" in 1969] but later Roddenberry got even when he gave Hartley "two" belly buttons in the sci-fi movie Genesis II (1973).
Bette Midler, Barry Manilow and many other famous vocalists got their start in a New York City club called The Continental Baths.
Between 1931 and 1969 Walt Disney collected thirty-five Oscars.
"Billie Jean" by Michael Jackson was the first video to air on MTV by a black artist.
By the time a child finishes elementary school she will have witnessed 8,000 murders and 100,000 acts of violence on television.
C3P0 is the first character to speak in Star Wars.
Captain Jean-Luc Picard's fish was named Livingston.
Captain Kirk never said "Beam me up, Scotty," but he did say, "Beam me up, Mr. Scott."
Carnegie Hall in New York City opened in 1891 with Tchaikovsky as guest conductor.
Chocolate syrup was used for blood in the famous 45 second shower scene in Alfred Hitchcock's movie, Psycho, which actually took 7 days to shoot.
Comedian/actor Billy Crystal portrayed Jodie Dallas, the first openly gay main character on network television on ABC's Soap, which aired from 1977 to 1981.
Disneyland opened in 1955.
Donald Duck lives at 1313 Webfoot Walk, Duckburg, Calisota.
Donald Duck's middle name is Fauntleroy.
Elvis Presley made his first appearance on national television in 1956. He sang Blue Suede Shoes and Heartbreak Hotel on "The Dorsey Brothers Show."
Even though they broke up 25 years ago, the Beatles continue to sell more records each year than the Rolling Stones.
Gaetano Albert "Guy" Lombardo did the first New Year's Eve broadcast of "Auld Lang Syne," from the Roosevelt Grill in New York City in 1929/1930.
George Harrison, with "My Sweet Lord," was the first Beatle to have a Number 1 hit single following the group's breakup.
Gunsmoke debuted on CBS-TV in 1955, and went on to become the longest-running (20 years) series on television.
"Happy Birthday" was the first song to be performed in outer space, sung by the Apollo IX astronauts on March 8, 1969.
In 1920, 57% of Hollywood movies billed the female star above the leading man. In 1990, only 18% had the leading lady given top billing.
In 1938 Joe Shuster and Jerry Siegel sold all rights to the comic-strip character Superman to their publishers for $130.
In 1962, the Mashed Potato, the Loco-Motion, the Frug, the Monkey, and the Funky Chicken were popular dances.
In 1969, Midnight Cowboy became the first and only X-rated production to win the Academy Award for Best Picture. (Its rating has since been changed to R.)
In 1987 Playtex premiered the first US TV commercials with real lingerie models displaying their bras and underwear on national television.
In Casablanca, Humphrey Bogart never said "Play it again, Sam."
In Disney's Fantasia, the Sorcerer's name is Yensid, which is Disney spelled backward.
In October 1959 Elizabeth Taylor became the first Hollywood star to receive $1 million for a single picture. (for Cleopatra)
In the movie Casablanca Rick never says "Play it again, Sam." He says: "You played it for her, you can play it for me. Play it!". Ilsa says "Play it, Sam. Play `As Time Goes By"'.
In the US, federal law states that children's TV shows may contain only 10 minutes of advertising per hour and on weekends the limit is 10 and one-half minutes.
In The Wizard of Oz the Scarecrow was looking for a brain, the Cowardly Lion was looking for courage, and the Tin Man was looking for a heart.
Jethro Tull is not the name of the rock singer responsible for such songs as "Aqualung" and "Thick as a Brick." Jethro Tull is the name of the band. The singer is Ian Anderson. The original Jethro Tull was an English horticulturalist who invented the seed drill.
Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, and Jim Morrison were all 27 years old when they died.
Little Jackie Paper was the name of Puff the Magic Dragon's human friend.
Mickey Mouse is known as 'Topolino' in Italy.
Movie detective Dirty Harry's badge number is 2211.
MTV (Music Television) made its debut at 12:01 a.m. on August 1, 1981 The first music-video shown on the rock-video cable channel was, appropriately, "Video Killed the Radio Star" by the Buggles. MTV's original five veejays were Martha Quinn, Nina Blackwood, Mark Goodman, J.J. Jackson and Alan Hunter.
Napoleon Bonaparte is the historical figure most often portrayed in movies. He has been featured in 194 movies, Jesus Christ in 152, and Abraham Lincoln in 137.
On February 9, 1993, "Dateline NBC" was forced to publicly apologize, and NBC president Michael Gartner resigned for a scandal caused by "Dateline" rigging a GM truck with explosives to simulate a "scientific" crash-test demo.
Penny Marshall was the first woman film director to have a film take in more than $100 million at the box office - she accomplished this with the 1988 flick Big.
Pierce Brosnan's first appearance as James Bond was in 1995 Golden Eye.
Rudolph, the Red-Nosed Reindeer, was created in 1939, in Chicago, for the Montgomery Ward department stores for a Christmas promotion. The lyrics were written as a poem by Robert May, but weren't set to music until 1947. Gene Autry recorded the hit song in 1949.
Santa's reindeer are: Dasher, Dancer, Prancer, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, Donner, and Blitzen.
The "Miss America" pageant made its network TV debut on ABC In 1954. Miss California, Lee Ann Meriwether, was crowned the winner.
The "Twelve Days of Christmas" gifts: A partridge in a pear tree, two turtledoves, three French hens, four calling birds, five gold rings, six geese laying, seven swans swimming, eight maids milking, nine ladies dancing, ten lords leaping, eleven pipers piping, and twelve drummers drumming. (There are 364 gifts altogether)
The 1st Academy Awards ceremony to be telecast was the 25th, in 1953.
The 1st Academy Awards were presented in 1927.
The 1st annual Grammy Awards were awarded in 1959. The Record of the Year was "Volare" by Domenico Modugno, the Album of the Year was "Peter Gunn" by Henry Mancini and the winner of the best R&B performance was "Tequila" by Champs.
The 1st CMA (Country Music Association) Awards, hosted by Sonny James and Bobbie Gentry, were presented at an awards banquet and show in 1967.
The 1st comic strip was "The Yellow Kid," in the New York World in 1896. The cartoonist was Richard Felton Outcault.
The 1st feature-length animated film, released by Disney Studios in 1937, was "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs."
The 1st inductees to the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1961 were Jimmie Rodgers, Fred Rose and Hank Williams were.
The 1st interracial kiss on TV took place Nov. 22, 1968 between Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner) and Lt.Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) on an episode of "Star Trek."
The 1st kiss in a movie was between May Irwin and John Rice in "The Widow Jones," in 1896.
The 1st live televised murder was in 1963, when Jack Ruby killed JFK's assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald while millions of viewers watched.
The 1st performance of Handel's "Messiah" was on April 13, 1742 at the New Music rooms in Fishamble St., Dublin. Because of the demand for space, the men were asked not to wear their swords and the ladies not to wear hooped skirts.
The 1st presidential news conference filmed for TV was in 1955. Eisenhower was the president.
The 1st televised presidential debate was September 26, 1960, between Nixon and Kennedy.
The 1st time the "f-word" was spoken in a movie was by Marianne Faithfull in the 1968 film, "I'll Never Forget Whatshisname." In Brian De Palma's 1984 movie, "Scarface," the word is spoken 206 times - an average of once every 29 seconds.
The 1st winner of the Academy Award for best picture, and the only silent film to achieve that honor, was the 1927 film, "Wings."
The 7 Dwarfs are Happy, Grumpy, Dopey (the beardless one), Doc, Bashful, Sneezy, Sleepy. They were miners.
The bagpipe was originally made from the whole skin of a dead sheep.
The Beatles' 1st song to hit the UK charts was 'Love me do' on 11th October 1962.
The Beatles were depicted in wax at Madame Tussaud's Wax Museum in London, in 1964, the first pop album stars to be honored.
The Beatles were George Harrison, John Lennon, Paul McCartney, and Ringo Starr. But there were also two lesser known, previous members of the band: Pete Best and Stu Sutcliffe.
The Black Hole, 1979, was Disney's first PG-rated movie.
The characters Bert and Ernie on Sesame Street were named after Bert the cop and Ernie the taxi driver in Frank Capra's "Its A Wonderful Life."
The characters of Homer, Marge, Lisa, and Maggie were given the same first names as Simpsons creator Matt Groening's real-life father, mother, and two sisters.
The first CD pressed in the US - for commercial release - was Bruce Springsteen's 'Born in the USA'.
The first film granted permission by the Chinese government to be filmed in the Forbidden City was The Last Emperor, 1987.
The first issue of People Magazine, in 1974, cost 35 cents and featured actress Mia Farrow on the cover.
The four principal characters from the cartoon series "The Chipmunks" are Alvin, Simon, Theodore, and Dave.
The Jazz Singer, 1927, was the first movie with audible dialogue.
The Lone Ranger's "real" name is John Reid.
The longest Oscar acceptance speech was made by Greer Garson for 1942's "Mrs. Miniver." It took 5 minutes, 30 seconds.
The Looney Tunes song is actually called "The Merry-Go-Round Broke Down."
The Mills Brothers have recorded the most songs of any artist: about 2,250.
The Monty Python movie "The Life of Brian" was banned in Scotland.
The official state song of Georgia since 1922 has been "Georgia on My Mind".
The Oscar statuette was designed by MGM's art director, Cedric Gibbons, in 1928. The design has remained unchanged, except for getting a higher pedestal in the 1940's.
The Professor on "Gilligan's Island" was named Roy Hinkley. The Skipper was named Jonas Grumby. Both names were used only once in the entire series, on the first episode.
The rock music video channel MTV made its debut in 1981.
The Russian Imperial Necklace has been loaned out by Joseff jewelers of Hollywood for 1,215 different feature films.
The science-fiction series "Lost in Space" (set in the year 1997) premiered on CBS in 1965.
The song "Happy Birthday to You" was originally written by sisters Mildred and Patty Hill as "Good Morning to You." The words were changed and it was published in 1935.
The song "When Irish Eyes Are Smiling" was written by George Graff, who was German, and was never in Ireland in his life.
The term karaoke means "empty orchestra" in Japanese, and the karaoke machine was designed originally to provide backing tracks for solo cabaret performers.
The title role of Dirty Harry, 1971, was originally intended for Frank Sinatra. After he refused, it was offered to John Wayne, and then Paul Newman, finally being accepted by Clint Eastwood.
The Wizard of Oz was a Broadway musical 37 years before the MGM movie version was made. It had 293 performances and then went on a tour that lasted 9 years.
There are 11 points on the collar around Kermit the Frog's neck.
There have been about 30 films made at or about Alcatraz, the now-closed federal prison island in San Francisco Bay, including The Rock (1996), Birdman of Alcatraz (1962), and Escape from Alcatraz (1979).
Time magazine's "Man of the Year" for 1938 was Adolf Hitler.
Walt Disney's first cartoon character was called Oswald the Rabbit.
Walter Huston and his son John become the first father-and-son team to win Oscars as director of and an actor in "Treasure of Sierra Madre" in 1949.
When Bugs Bunny first appeared in 1935, he was called Happy Rabbit.
A honey bee must tap two million flowers to make one pound of honey.
A typical American eats 28 pigs in his/her lifetime.
Americans consumed over 3.1 billion pounds of chocolate in 2001, which is almost half of the total world's production.
Americans spend approximately $25 billion each year on beer.
Americans spent an estimated $267 billion dining out in 1993.
An etiquette writer of the 1840’s advised, “Ladies may wipe their lips on the tablecloth, but not blow their noses on it.”
Astronaut John Glenn ate the first meal in space when he ate pureed applesauce squeezed from a tube aboard Friendship 7 in 1962.
Aunt Jemima pancake flour, invented in 1889, was the first ready-mix food to be sold commercially.
Caffeine: there are 100 to 150 milligrams of caffeine in an eight-ounce cup of brewed coffee, 10 milligrams in a six-ounce cup of cocoa, 5 to 10 milligrams in one ounce of bittersweet chocolate, and 5 milligrams in one ounce of milk chocolate.
California’s Frank Epperson invented the Popsicle in 1905 when he was 11-years-old.
Capsaicin, which makes hot peppers “hot” to the human mouth, is best neutralized by casein, the main protein found in milk.
China’s Beijing Duck Restaurant can seat 9,000 people at one time.
Chocolate contains phenylethylamine (PEA), a natural substance that is reputed to stimulate the same reaction in the body as falling in love.
Chocolate manufacturers currently use 40 percent of the world's almonds and 20 percent of the world's peanuts.
During the Alaskan Klondike gold rush, (1897-1898) potatoes were practically worth their weight in gold. Potatoes were so valued for their vitamin C content that miners traded gold for potatoes.
During World War II, bakers in the United States were ordered to stop selling sliced bread for the duration of the war on January 18, 1943. Only whole loaves were made available to the public. It was never explained how this action helped the war effort.
Fortune cookies were invented in 1916 by George Jung, a Los Angeles noodle maker.
Fried chicken is the most popular meal ordered in sit-down restaurants in the US. The next in popularity are: roast beef, spaghetti, turkey, baked ham, and fried shrimp.
Goulash, a beef soup, originated in Hungary in the 9th century AD.
Haggis, the national dish of Scotland: take the heart, liver, lungs, and small intestine of a calf or sheep, boil them in the stomach of the animal, season with salt, pepper and onions, add suet and oatmeal. Enjoy!
Hostess Twinkies were invented in 1931 by James Dewar, manager of Continental Bakeries' Chicago factory. He envisioned the product as a way of using the company's thousands of shortcake pans which were otherwise employed only during the strawberry season. Originally called Little Shortcake Fingers, they were renamed Twinkie Fingers, and finally "Twinkies."
In 1860, ‘Godey’s Lady’s Book’ advised US women to cook tomatoes for at least 3 hours.
In 1926, when a Los Angeles restaurant owner with the all-American name of Bob Cobb was looking for a way to use up leftovers, he threw together some avocado, celery, tomato, chives, watercress, hard-boiled eggs, chicken, bacon, and Roquefort cheese, and named it after himself: Cobb salad.
In 1976, the first eight Jelly Belly® flavors were launched: Orange, Green Apple, Root Beer, Very Cherry, Lemon, Cream Soda, Grape, and Licorice.
In 1990, Bill Carson, of Arrington, Tennessee, grew the largest watermelon at 262 pounds that is still on the record books according to the 1998 edition of the Guinness Book of World Records.
In 1995, KFC sold 11 pieces of chicken for every man, woman and child in the US.
In an authentic Chinese meal, the last course is soup because it allows the roast duck entree to “swim” toward digestion.
In the United States, a pound of potato chips costs two hundred times more than a pound of potatoes.
Large doses of coffee can be lethal. Ten grams, or 100 cups over 4 hours, can kill the average human.
Laws forbidding the sale of sodas on Sunday prompted William Garwood to invent the ice cream sundae in Evanston, IL, in 1875.
Louis XIV (1638-1715), was recorded to eat "four soups, a pheasant, a partridge, a plate of salad, sliced mutton with garlic, two lumps of ham, a plate of pastries, fruits and preserves" at one sitting.
Mayonnaise is said to be the invention of the French chef of the Duke de Richelieu in 1756. While the Duke was defeating the British at Port Mahon, his chef was creating a victory feast that included a sauce made of cream and eggs. When the chef realized that there was no cream in the kitchen, he improvised, substituting olive oil for the cream. A new culinary masterpiece was born, and the chef named it "Mahonnaise" in honor of the Duke's victory.
McDonald’s “Big Mac” slogan, introduced in 1975, is: “Two all beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions, and a sesame seed bun.”
McDonalds and Burger King sugar-coat their fries so they will turn golden-brown.
Mincemeat was originally a medieval food made of a sweet, spicy mixture of chopped lean meat, (usually beef, or beef tongue), suet and fruit. Over time, the meat content was reduced, and today the mixture contains nuts, dried fruit, beef suet, spices and brandy or rum, but usually no beef.
Mushrooms have no chlorophyll so they don't need sunshine to grow and thrive. Some of the earliest commercial mushroom farms were set up in caves in France during the reign of King Louis XIV (1638-1715).
Nabisco’s “Oreo’s” are the world’s best-selling brand of cookie at a rate of 6 billion sold each year. The first Oreo was sold in 1912.
Per capita, the Irish eat more chocolate than Americans, Swedes, Danes, French, and Italians.
Persians first began using colored eggs to celebrate spring in 3,000 B.C. 13th century Macedonians were the first Christians on record to use colored eggs in Easter celebrations. Crusaders returning from the Middle East spread the custom of coloring eggs, and Europeans began to use them to celebrate Easter and other warm weather holidays.
Pine, spruce, or other evergreen wood should never be used in barbecues. These woods, when burning or smoking, can add harmful tar and resins to the food. Only hardwoods should be used for smoking and grilling, such as oak, pecan, hickory, maple, cherry, alder, apple, or mesquite, depending on the type of meat being cooked.
Potato chips are American’s favorite snack food.  They are devoured at a rate of 1.2 billion pounds a year.
Potato chips were invented in Saratoga Springs in 1853 by chef George Crum.  They were a mocking response to a patron who complained that his French fries were too thick.
Refried beans aren't really what they seem. Although their name seems like a reasonable translation of Spanish frijoles refritos, the fact is that these beans aren't fried twice. In Spanish, refritos literally means "well-fried," not "re-fried."
Research show that only 43% of homemade dinners served in the US include vegetables.
Rice is the staple food of more than one-half of the world’s population.
Saffron, made from the dried stamens of cultivated crocus flowers, is the most expensive cooking spice.
Since Hindus don't eat beef, the McDonald's in New Delhi makes its burgers with mutton.
Sliced bread was introduced under the Wonder Bread label in 1930.
Sweetbread is neither sweet, nor bread. It is a dish made up of the pancreas or the thymus gland of a calf or lamb.
Swiss Steak, Chop Suey, Russian Dressing, and a Hamburger all originated in the US.
Tequila is made from the root of the blue agave cactus.
The Agen plum which would become the basis of the US prune industry was first planted in California in 1856.
The average child will eat 1,500 PB sandwiches by high school graduation.
The bubbles in Guiness beer sink to the bottom rather than float to the top as in other beers.
The California grape and wine industries were started by Count Agoston Haraszthy de Moksa, who planted Tokay, Zinfandel, and Shiras varieties from his native Hungary in Buena Vista in 1857.
The color of a chile is no indication of its spiciness, but size usually is - the smaller the pepper, the hotter it is.
The daughter of confectioner Leo Hirschfield is commemorated in the name of the sweet he invented: Although his daughter's real name was Clara, she went by the nickname Tootsie, and in her honor, her doting father named his chewy chocolate logs Tootsie Rolls.
The difference between apple juice and apple cider is that apple juice is the juice of the fruit only, and apple cider is the whole apple-skins, seeds, and all- which gives it the fuller body and deeper color. The juice is pasteurized and the cider is not.
The dye used to stamp the grade on meat is edible. It's made from grape skins.
The English word "soup" comes from the Middle Ages word "sop," which means a slice of bread over which roast drippings were poured. The first archaeological evidence of soup being consumed dates back to 6000 B.C., with the main ingredient being Hippopotamus bones!
The FDA allows an average of 30 or more insect fragments and one or more rodent hairs per 100 grams of peanut butter.
The first ring donuts were produced in 1847 by a 15 year old baker’s apprentice, Hanson Gregory, who knocked the soggy center out of a fried doughnut.
The fungus called truffles can cost $800 to $1,500 per pound. They are sniffed out by female pigs, which detect a compound that is in the saliva of male pigs as well. The same chemical is found in the sweat of human males.
The hamburger was invented in 1900 by Louis Lassen.  He ground beef, broiled it, and served it between two pieces of toast.
The herring is the most widely eaten fish in the world. Nutritionally its fuel value is that equal to that of a beefsteak.
The hottest chile in the world is the habanero.
The ice cream soda was invented in 1874 by Robert Green.  He was serving a mixture of syrup, sweet cream and carbonated water at a celebration in Philadelphia.  He ran out of cream and substituted ice cream.
The largest item on any menu in the world is probably the roast camel, sometimes served at Bedouin wedding feasts. The camel is stuffed with a sheep's carcass, which is stuffed with chickens, which are stuffed with fish, which are stuffed with eggs.
The largest living organism ever found is a honey mushroom, Armillaria ostoyae. It covers 3.4 square miles of land in the Blue Mountains of eastern Oregon, and it's still growing
The Pillsbury Bake-off has been held every year since 1948.
The pound cake got its name from the pound of butter it contained.
The sandwich is named for the Fourth Earl of Sandwich (1718-92), for whom sandwiches were made so that he could stay at the gambling table without interruptions for meals.
The vintage date on a bottle of wine indicates the year the grapes were picked, not the year of bottling.
The white part of an egg is the albumen.
The white potato originated in the Andes mountains and was probably brought to Britain by Sir Francis Drake about 1586.
The world’s first chocolate candy was produced in 1828 by Dutch chocolate-maker Conrad J. Van Houten.  He pressed the fat from roasted cacao beans to produce cocoa butter, to which he added cocoa powder and sugar.
The world's costliest coffee, at $130 a pound , is called Kopi Luwak. It is in the droppings of a type of marsupial that eats only the very best coffee beans. Plantation workers track them and scoop their precious poop.
The world's deadliest mushroom is the Amanita phalloides, the death cap. The five different poisons contained by the mushroom cause diarrhea and vomiting within 6 to 12 hours of ingestion. This is followed by damage to the liver, kidneys, and central nervous system - and, in the majority of cases, coma and death.
To determine the percentage of alcohol in a bottle of liquor divide the proof by two.
Truffles, or mushrooms that grow below the ground, are one of the world's most expensive foods. One variety, Tuber melanosporum, can cost between $800 and $1,500 a pound.
Van Camp’s Pork and Beans were a staple food for Union soldiers in the Civil War.
Vanilla is the extract of fermented and dried pods of several species of orchids.
Watermelon is grown in over 96 countries worldwide.  Over 1,200 varieties of watermelon are grown worldwide. There are about 200 varieties of watermelon throughout the US.
Watermelon, considered one of America's favorite fruits, is really a vegetable (Citrullus lanatus). Cousin to the cucumber and kin to the gourd, watermelons can range in size from 7 to 100 pounds.
When Catherine de Medici married Henry II of France (1533) she brought forks with her, as well as several master Florentine cooks. Foods never before seen in France were soon being served using utensils instead of fingers or daggers. She is said to have introduced spinach (which "à la Florentine" usually means) as well as aspics, sweetbreads, artichoke hearts, truffles, liver crépinettes, quenelles of poultry, macaroons, ice cream, and zabagliones.
When honey is swallowed, it enters the blood stream within a period of 20 minutes.
When potatoes first appeared in Europe in the seventeenth century, it was thought that they were disgusting, and they were blamed for starting outbreaks of leprosy and syphilis. As late as 1720 in America, eating potatoes was believed to shorten a person's life.
When Swiss cheese ferments, a bacterial action generates gas.  As the gas is liberated, it bubbles through the cheese leaving holes. Cheese-makers call them “eyes.”
A hamlet is a village without a church and a town is not a city until it has a cathedral.
About one-tenth of the earth's surface is permanently covered with ice.
According to National Geographic, Mt. Everest grows about 4 millimeters a year: the two tectonic plates of Asia and India, which collided millions of years ago to form the Himalayas, continue to press against each other, causing the Himalyan peaks to grow slightly each year
Alaska and California, with 8 each, are the US states with the most national park sites.
All gondolas in Venice, Italy must be painted black, unless they belong to a high official.
As of Dec. 31, 2000, the number of climbers summiting Mt. Everest reached 1314, and the number of deaths on the mountain reached 167.
At 840,000 square miles, Greenland is the largest island in the world. It is three times the size of Texas. By comparison, Iceland is only 39,800 square miles.
Australia is the only country that is also a continent.
Canada is an Indian word meaning 'Big Village'.
Damascus, Syria, was flourishing a couple of thousand years before Rome was founded in 753 BC, making it the oldest continuously inhabited city in existence.
Devon is the only county in Great Britain to have two coasts.
Disney World in Orlando, Florida covers 30,500 acres (46 square miles), making it twice the size of the island of Manhattan, New York.
Dueling is legal in Paraguay as long as both parties are registered blood donors.
El Azizia in Libya recorded a temperature of 136 degrees Fahrenheit (57.8 Celsius) on Sept. 13, 1922 -- the hottest ever measured.
Europe has no deserts - it is the only continent without one.
For every 10 successful attempts to climb Mount Everest there is one fatality.
Forty-six percent of the world's water is in the Pacific Ocean; that's around 6 sextillion gallons of water. The Atlantic has 23.9 percent; the Indian, 20.3; the Arctic, 3.7 percent.
French was the official language of England for over 600 years.
Grand Rapids, Michigan was the first city in the US to put fluoride in their water.
Hawaii is the only US state that grows coffee.
Hawaii officially became apart of the US on June 14, 1900.
If Monaco's ruling house of Grimaldi should ever be without an heir (male or female), the country will cease to be a sovereign state.
In 1771 the kingdom of Poland was larger in are than any other European country except Russia and had a bigger population than any other European country except France.
In the Great Seal of the US the eagle grasps 13 arrows and an olive branch.
It is forbidden for aircraft to fly over the Taj Mahal.
Japan is the world's leading importer of iron ore.
La Paz, Bolivia, at 11,900 feet above sea-level, is the highest large city in the world. (According to Scholastic Book of World Records 2004, Wenchuan, China is the highest city in the world, at 16,730 feet about sea level. This city if part of Sichuan Province, southwest China. )
Lake Pontchartrain Causeway at New Orleans, Louisiana, is the world's largest bridge. It is almost 24 miles (about 38 kilometers) long.
Maine is the only state in the United States whose name has one syllable.
Mexico City is sinking at a rate of 6 to 8 inches a year because it's built on top of an underground reservoir. Wells are drawing out more and more water for the city's growing population of more than 15 million people.
Mexico City is the oldest capital city in the Americas.
More water flows over Niagara Falls every year than over any other falls on earth.
Most landfilled trash retains its original weight, volume, and form for 40 years.
New Jersey, with 96, is the US state with the greatest number of hazardous waste sites.
Quito in Ecuador, South America, is said to have the most pleasant climate in the world. It is called the 'Land of Eternal Spring.' The temperature rarely drops below 46 degrees Fahrenheit during the night, or exceed 72 degrees Fahrenheit during the day.
St. Augustine, Florida is the oldest city in the US.
Talking on a cellular phone while driving is against the law in Israel.
The 1st US zoo was built in Philadelphia, PA, in 1876.
The abbreviation 'ORD' for Chicago's O'Hare airport comes from the old name 'Orchard Field.'
The Arctic ocean is the smallest and shallowest. The Arctic Ocean is the world's smallest ocean. It is mostly covered by solid ice, ice floes, and icebergs
The Atlantic Ocean is saltier than the Pacific Ocean.
The border between Canada and the U.S. is the world's longest frontier. It stretches 3,987 miles (6,416 km).
The city of Rome was built on seven hills. They were Palatine, Capitoline, Quirinal, Viminal, Esquiline, Caelian, and Aventine.
The coldest temperature ever measured on Earth was -129 Fahrenheit (-89 Celsius) at Vostok, Antarctica, on July 21, 1983.
The earth’s surface contains 196,950,711 square miles (510,100,000 square kilometers).
The Eiffel Tower was built for the 1889 World's Fair.
The first city to reach a population of 1 million people was Rome, Italy in 133 B.C. London, England reached the mark in 1810 and New York, USA made it in 1875. Today, there are over 300 cities in the world that boast a population in excess of 1 million.
The flag of the Philippines is the only national flag that is flown differently during times of peace or war. A portion of the flag is blue, while the other is red. The blue portion is flown on top in time of peace and the red portion is flown in war time.
The Fresh Kills Landfill site on Staten Island, New York, opened in 1948, is the world's largest. It covers 3,000 acres and receives up to 14,000 tons of garbage a day. It is scheduled to reach capacity and close by the year 2002.
The Great Lakes are Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake Superior, Lake Erie and Lake Ontario.
The Great Lakes are the most important inland waterway in North America. All the lakes, except Lake Michigan, which lies entirely in the United States, are shared by the United States and Canada and form part of the border between these countries.
The Great Lakes contain 6 quadrillion gallons of fresh water, one-fifth of the world's fresh surface water. The Great Lakes are the largest group of freshwater lakes in the world.
The Great Lakes have a combined area of 94,230 square miles - larger than the states of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and Vermont combined.
The Hollywood sign was first erected in 1923. Conceived as a real estate ad, it originally read Hollywoodland. The sign stands 50 feet tall, stretches 450 feet across, weighs 450,000 pounds.
The international telephone dialing code for Antarctica is 672.
The Jordanian city Amman was once called Philadelphia.
The largest body of fresh water in the world is Lake Superior.
The largest desert in the world, the Sahara, is 3,500,000 square miles.
The largest US city in area is Juneau, Alaska, which covers 3,108 square miles. Los Angeles covers only 458.2 square miles.
The longest railway in the world is the Trans-Siberian Railway or Trans-Siberian Railroad, built 1891-1916, a network of railways connecting European Russia with Russian Far East provinces. It is 9,288.2 kilometres (5,787 miles) long and spans 8 time zones.
The Mauna Loa volcano in Hawaii is the largest volcano on Earth. It rises more than 50,000 feet (9.5 miles or 15.2 kilometers) above its base, which sits under the surface of the sea.
The Ohio river forms at the confluence of the Allegheny and the Monongahela.
The only continent without reptiles or snakes is Antarctica.
The original name of Los Angeles was El Pueblo de Nuestra Senora la Reina de los Angeles del rio Porciuncula, translating into:The Village of our Lady the Queen of the Angels of the Porciuncula River.
The Pantheon is the largest building from ancient Rome that survives intact.
The river Danube empties into the Black Sea.
The San Diego Zoo in California has the largest collection of animals in the world.
The seven hills of Rome are the Palatine (on which the original city was built), the Capitoline, Quirinal, Viminal, Esquiline, Caelian, and Aventine.
The smallest island with country status is Pitcairn in Polynesia, at just 1.75 square miles.
The tallest monument built in the US, the Gateway Arch, in St. Louis, Missouri, is 630 feet tall.
The US city with the highest murder rate is Detroit, with 45.3 homicides per 100,000 people.
The Vatican's Swiss Guard still wears a uniform designed by Michelangelo in the early 16th century.
The water in the Great Salt Lake of Utah is more than four times as salty as any ocean.
The wettest spot in the world is located on the island of Kauai. Mt. Waialeale consistently records rainfall at the rate of nearly 500 inches per year.
The world’s deadliest recorded earthquake occurred in 1557 in central China. It struck a region where most people lived in caves carved from soft rock. The dwellings collapsed, killing an estimated 830,000 people.
The world’s largest statue of a mosquito is a roadside attraction in Komarno, Manitoba, the Mosquito Capital of Canada. Sculpted in 1984, it is made of steel and has a wingspan of 15 feet. It’s also a weathervane, swiveling in the wind.
The world's highest railway is in Peru. The Central Railway climbs to 15,694 feet in the Galera tunnel, 108 miles from Lima. Tourists take it to get to the ruins of Machu Picchu.
The world's longest suspension bridge opened to traffic on April 5, 1998. The 3,911-meter (12,831-feet) Akashi Kaikyo Bridge is 580 meters (1,900 feet) longer than the Humber Bridge in England, the previous record holder.
The world's smallest independent state is the Vatican City, with a population of about 1,000 - and a zero birthrate.
The world's tallest mountains, the Himalayas, are also the fastest growing. Their growth - about half an inch a year - is caused by the pressure exerted by two of Earth's continental plates (the Eurasian plate and the Indo-Australian plate) pushing against one another.
A cough releases an explosive charge of air that moves at speeds up to 60 mph.
A fetus acquires fingerprints at the age of three months.
A fingernail or toenail takes about 6 months to grow from base to tip.
A healthy individual releases 3.5 oz. of gas in a single flatulent emission, or about 17 oz. in a day.
A human being loses an average of 40 to 100 strands of hair a day.
A person will die from total lack of sleep sooner than from starvation. Death will occur about 10 days without sleep, while starvation takes a few weeks.
A sneeze can exceed the speed of 100 mph.
According to German researchers, the risk of heart attack is higher on Monday than any other day of the week.
According to the Kinsey Institute, the biggest erect penis on record measures 13 inches. The smallest tops off at 1 3/4 inches.
After spending hours working at a computer display, look at a blank piece of white paper. It will probably appear pink.
An average human drinks about 16, 000 gallons of water in a lifetime.
An average human scalp has 100,000 hairs.
An average person uses the bathroom 6 times per day.
An individual blood cell takes about 60 seconds to make a complete circuit of the body.
Babies are born with 300 bones, but by adulthood we have only 206 in our bodies.
Beards are the fastest growing hairs on the human body. If the average man never trimmed his beard, it would grow to nearly 30 feet long in his lifetime.
Blondes have more hair than dark-haired people.
Blood sucking hookworms inhabit 700 million people worldwide.
By age sixty, most people have lost half of their taste buds.
By the time you turn 70, your heart will have beat some two-and-a-half billion times (figuring on an average of 70 beats per minute.)
During the 2,475,576,000 seconds of the average length life, we speak 123,205,750 words, have sex 4,239 times, shed 121 pints of tears.
Each square inch of human skin consists of twenty feet of blood vessels.
Every human spent about half an hour as a single cell.
Every person has a unique tongue print.
Every square inch of the human body has an average of 32 million bacteria on it.
Every time you lick a stamp, you're consuming 1/10 of a calorie.
Fingernails grow faster than toenails.
Fingerprints serve a function - they provide traction for the fingers to grasp things.
Humans have 46 chromosomes, peas have 14 and crayfish have 200.
Humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin every hour - about 1.5 pounds a year. By 70 years of age, an average person will have lost 105 pounds of skin.
Humans shed and re-grow outer skin cells about every 27 days - almost 1,000 new skins in a lifetime.
If it were removed from the body, the small intestine would stretch to a length of 22 feet.
If you are locked in a completely sealed room, you will die of carbon dioxide poisoning first before you will die of oxygen deprivation.
If you go blind in one eye, you'll only lose about one-fifth of your vision (but all your depth perception.)
In a lifetime the average US resident eats more than 50 tons of food and drinks more than 13,000 gallons of liquid.
In the late 19th century, millions of human mummies were used as fuel for locomotives in Egypt where wood and coal was scarce, but mummies were plentiful.
It takes 17 muscles to smile --- 43 to frown.
It would take 1,200,000 mosquitoes, each sucking once, to completely drain the average human of blood.
Jaw muscles can provide about 200 pounds of force to bring the back teeth together for chewing.
Lab tests can detect traces of alcohol in urine six to 12 hours after a person has stopped drinking.
Laughing lowers levels of stress hormones and strengthens the immune system. Six-year-olds laugh an average of 300 times a day. Adults only laugh 15 to 100 times a day.
Most men have erections every hour to hour and a half during sleep.
On average women say 7,000 words per day. Men manage just over 2000.
One in every 2000 babies is born with a tooth.
Pregnancy in humans lasts on average about 270 days (from conception to birth).
Roughly 80% of all human beings on earth have one or more internal parasite infestations. For america, the estimate is 95%. Almost all human beings will suffer from internal or external parasites at least once in their lifespan and may never even know it.
Some people never develop fingerprints at all. Two rare genetic defects, known as Naegeli syndrome and dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis, can leave carriers without any identifying ridges on their skin.
The ashes of the average cremated person weigh nine pounds.
The average adolescent girl has 34,000 underdeveloped egg follicles, although only 350 or so mature during her life (at the rate of about one per month).
The average duration of sexual intercourse for humans is 2 minutes.
The average human body contains enough: iron to make a 3 inch nail, sulfur to kill all fleas on an average dog, carbon to make 900 pencils, potassium to fire a toy cannon, fat to make 7 bars of soap, phosphorous to make 2,200 match heads, and water to fill a ten-gallon tank.
The average human produces 25,000 quarts of spit in a lifetime, enough to fill two swimming pools.
The average person releases nearly a pint of intestinal gas by flatulence every day. Most is due to swallowed air. The rest is from fermentation of undigested food.
The body's largest internal organ is the small intestine at an average length of 20 feet
The brain is soft and gelatinous - its consistency is something between jelly and cooked pasta.
The feet account for one quarter of all the human bodies bones.
The human body has enough fat to produce 7 bars of soap.
The human body has over 600 muscles, 40% of the body's weight.
The human brain is about 85% water.
The largest cell in the human body is the female ovum, or egg cell. It is about 1/180 inch in diameter. The smallest cell in the human body is the male sperm. It takes about 175,000 sperm cells to weigh as much as a single egg cell.
The largest cell in the human body is the female reproductive cell, the ovum. The smallest is the male sperm.
The largest human organ is the skin, with a surface area of about 25 square feet.
The left lung is smaller than the right lung to make room for the heart.
The little lump of flesh just forward of your ear canal, right next to your temple, is called a tragus.
The longest muscle in the human body is the sartorius. This narrow muscle of the thigh passes obliquely across the front of the thigh and helps rotate the leg to the position assumed in sitting cross-legged. Its name is a derivation of the adjective "sartorial," a reference to what was the traditional cross-legged position of tailors (or "sartors") at work.
The most common blood type in the world is Type O. The rarest, Type A-H, has been found in less than a dozen people since the type was discovered.
The Neanderthal's brain was bigger than yours is.
The only bone in the human body not connected to another is the hyoid, a V-shaped bone located at the base of the tongue between the mandible and the voice box. Its function is to support the tongue and its muscles.
The only time the human population declined was in the years following 1347, the start of the epidemic of the plague 'Black Death' in Europe.
The permanent teeth that erupt to replace their primary predecessors (baby teeth) are called succedaneous teeth.
The sound of a snore (up to 69 decibels) can be almost as loud as the noise of a pneumatic drill.
The tips of fingers and the soles of feet are covered by a thick, tough layer of skin called the stratum corneum.
There are 45 miles of nerves in the skin of a human being.
There are 60,000 miles of blood vessels in the human body.
There are four main Blood types: A, B, AB and O and each Blood type is either Rh positive or negative. Blood types in the US - Type O positive 38.4%, O negative 7.7%, A positive 32.3%, A negative 6.5%, B positive 9.4%, B negative 1.7%, AB positive 3.2%, AB negative 0.7%
Though it makes up only 2 percent of our total body weight, the brain demands 20 percent of the body's oxygen and calories.
Three-hundred-million cells die in the human body every minute.
Women burn fat more slowly than men, by a rate of about 50 calories a day.
Women's hearts beat faster than men's.
Your stomach cells secrete hydrochloric acid, a corrosive compound used to treat metals in the industrial world. It can pickle steel, but mucous lining the stomach wall keeps this poisonous liquid safely in the digestive system.
10 percent of all human beings ever born are alive at this very moment.
A person afflicted with hexadectylism has six fingers or six toes on one or both hands and feet.
A poll of 3,000 Americans found that for 41 percent, the thing they're most afraid of is speaking before a group of people. 32 percent stated they were afraid of heights.
A Saudi Arabian woman can get a divorce if her husband doesn't give her coffee.
About 10% of the world's population is left-handed.
Air pollution may contribute to two percent of all deaths in the US, some 50,000 cases per year. A nine-year study of US cities showed a strong correlation between death rates and periods of significant pollution.
America's first nudist organization was founded in 1929, by 3 men.
Barbers at one time combined shaving and haircutting with bloodletting and pulling teeth. The white stripes on a field of red that spiral down a barber pole represent the bandages used in the bloodletting.
Based on a US Justice Department study conducted between 1992 and 1996, workplace violence troubles 1.7 million Americans a year. Number of workers attacked or threatened per thousand: Police officers: 306, Private security guards: 218, Taxi drivers: 184, Prison guards: 117, Bartenders: 91, Mental health professionals: 80, Gas station attendants: 79.
Catholic Popes who died during sex: Leo VII (936-9) died of a heart attack, John VII (955-64) was bludgeoned to death by the husband of the woman he was with at the time, John XIII (965-72) was also murdered by a jealous husband, Pope Paul II (1467-71) allegedly died while being sodomized by a page boy.
For drinking, washing, etc., an average American uses 168 gallons of water per day. The average American residence uses 107,000 gallons per year.
For the 66% of American's who admit to reading in the bathroom, the preferred reading material is "Reader's Digest."
Forty-six US federal agencies have officers with the authority to carry firearms and arrest people.
Fourteen percent of the one million citizens of Nairobi, Kenya carry the AIDS virus. Some 20% of the Kenyan military is infected. (1997)
Gerald Ford, George Bush, Tommy Lasorda, Ted Koppel, John F. Kennedy Jr. and Bill Clinton are all left handed.
Hans Christian Andersen, Cher, Tom Cruise, Albert Einstein, Whoopie Goldberg, Greg Louganis, Lee Harvey Oswald, and Gen. George S. Patton, are (were) all dyslexics.
How many American presidents are not buried in the United States? Four. Jimmy Carter, George Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.
Humans are the one of the rare animals which copulate face to face. Orangutans also copulate in this manner, the only other species to do so with the same regularity as humans. In addition, Bonobos have been documented doing the same, though only occasionally.
In 1894 there were only 4 automobiles in the US.
In 1900 the average age at death in the US was 47.
In 1960, an estimated 4,000 people were over 100 years old in the U.S. By 1995 the number had jumped to : 55,000.
In most American states, a wedding ring is exempt by law from inclusion among the assets in a bankruptcy estate. This means that a wedding ring cannot be seized by creditors, no matter how much the bankrupt person owes.
Isaac Newton, Peter Tchaikovsky and Annie Lennox were all born on Christmas.
James Madison, 5 feet, 4 inches tall, was the shortest president of the US. Abraham Lincoln was the tallest at six feet, 4 inches.
Julius Caesar and Napoleon Bonaparte both suffered from epilepsy.
Julius Caesar, Martin Luther and Jonathan Swift all suffered from Ménièr's disease. It is a disorder of the hearing and balance senses causing hissing, roaring or whistling sounds to be perceived.
Men commit suicide three times more frequently than women do. But women attempt suicide two to three times more often than men.
Midgets and dwarfs almost always have normal-sized children, even if both parents are midgets or dwarfs.
Monday's Child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe, Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child has to work for its living, But a child that's born on the Sabbath Day, Is fair and wise and good and gay.
More people are killed annually by donkeys than die in air crashes.
Offered a new pen to write with, 97% of all people will write their own name.
Over 80% of professional boxers have suffered brain damage.
Texas was one of the first states to adopt capital punishment by lethal injection -- in 1977.
The ashes of the average cremated person weigh nine pounds.
The average bank teller loses about $250 every year.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
The average person is about a quarter of an inch taller at night.
The average person laughs about 15 times a day.
The average person walks the equivalent of twice around the world in a lifetime.
The average US male will spend 2,965 hours shaving during his lifetime.
The first US president to both be sued for sexual misconduct and forced to give a deposition while in office was William Jefferson Clinton.
The kiss that is given by the bride to the groom at the end of the wedding ceremony originates from the earliest times when the couple would actually make love for the first time under the eyes of half the village!
The largest single-ticket jackpot winner in history is Jack Whittaker Jr. of West Virginia. In December 2002 he had the sole winning ticket for a $314.9 million jackpot in the U.S. Powerball lottery.
The most common name in the world is Mohammed.
The most popular first name in the world is Muhammad.
The New York phone book had 22 Hitlers listed before World War II ... and none after.
The number of triplets born in the US in 1994 (4,594) was more than triple the number born in 1971 (1,034), an increase attributed to older age of the mothers and the use of fertility-enhancing drugs and techniques.
The states of Washington and Montana still execute prisoners by hanging.
The three best-known western names in China: Jesus Christ, Richard Nixon, and Elvis Presley.
The vocabulary of the average person consists of 5,000 to 6,000 words.
Three chemicals are used to execute criminals by lethal injection. First, Sodium Thiopental is injected, causing the inmate to fall into a deep sleep. The second chemical agent, Pancuronium Bromide, a muscle relaxer, follows. This causes the inmate to stop breathing due to paralyses of the diaphragm and lungs. Finally, Potassium Chloride is injected, stopping the heart
The Gothic-style Washington National Cathedral contains the remains of the only US president buried in Washington: Woodrow Wilson. William Howard Taft and John F. Kennedy are buried at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, VA.
US Presidents who died on July 4th: John Adams and Thomas Jefferson died in 1826, James Monroe died in 1831.
US presidents who have been assassinated: Abraham Lincoln in 1865, James A. Garfield in 1881, William H. McKinley in 1901, and John F. Kennedy in 1963.
US Presidents who never attended college: Grover Cleveland, Abraham Lincoln, Harry S Truman, and George Washington.
US Presidents who never had children: George Washington, known as the "Father of the Country," James Madison, Andrew Jackson, James Polk, James Buchanan, and Warren Harding.
US Presidents who never held any other elective office: U. S. Grant, William H. Taft, Herbert Hoover, Dwight D. Eisenhower.
US Presidents who owned slaves : George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, Andrew Jackson, John Tyler, James K. Polk, Zachary Taylor, Andrew Johnson, and Ulysses S. Grant.
US presidents who served an entire term without a vice president: John Tyler, Millard Fillmore, Andrew Johnson, and Chester Arthur.
US presidents who were survived by their fathers: John F. Kennedy and Warren Harding.
US Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina set a filibuster record in the U.S. Senate on August 19, 1957. He spoke for 24 hours and 18 minutes.
While sleeping, one man in eight snores, and one in ten grinds his teeth.
William Henry Harrison (1773-1841) was the first US president to die in office. At 32 days, he also had the shortest term in office.
Women shoplift more often than men; the statistics are 4 to 1.
You share your birthday with at least nine million other people around the world.
"Fortnight" is a contraction of "fourteen nights." In the US "two weeks" is more commonly used.
A bathometer is an instrument for indicating the depth of the sea beneath a moving vessel.
A 'jiffy' is an actual unit of time for 1/100th of a second.
A Sphygmomanometer measures blood pressure.
A typical lightning bolt is two to four inches wide and two miles long.
A wind with a speed of 74 miles or more is designated a hurricane.
Any month that starts on a Sunday will have a Friday the 13th in it.
At 4,145 miles, the Nile River is the longest in the world.
Each unit on the Richter Scale is equivalent to a power factor of about 32. So a 6 is 32 times more powerful than a 5!
Easter is the first Sunday after the first Full Moon after March 21.
England and the American colonies adopted the Gregorian calendar on September 14th, 1752. 11 days disappeared.
Flying from London to New York by Concord, due to the time zones crossed, you can arrive 2 hours before you leave.
If the sun stopped shining suddenly, it would take eight minutes for people on earth to be aware of the fact.
If you add up the numbers 1-100 consecutively (1+2+3+4+5 etc) the total is 5050.
In 1947, heavy snow blanketed the Northeast, burying New York City under 25.8 inches of snow in 16 hours; the severe weather was blamed for some 80 deaths.
Light travels at the rate of 186,200 miles a second.
More than 99.9% of all the animal species that have ever lived on earth were extinct before the coming of man.
Nearly 50% of all bank robberies take place on Friday.
Ten inches of snow equals one inch of rain in water content.
The anemometer is an instrument which measures the force, velocity, or pressure of the wind.
The base of the Great Pyramid of Egypt is large enough to cover 10 football fields.
The greatest snowfall ever in a single storm was 189 inches at the Mount Shasta Ski Bowl in February, 1959.
The Gregorian calendar was introduced by Pope Gregory in 1582 AD, and was adopted by Great Britain and the English colonies in 1752.
The highest point of the earth, with an elevation of 29,141 feet, is the top of Mt. Everest in Tibet.
The highest temperature ever recorded in the continental US was 134 degrees on July 10, 1913 in Death Valley, California.
The highest temperature ever recorded in the world was 136.4 degrees Fahrenheit at El Azizia, Lybia, on September 13, 1922.
The highest waterfall in the world, Angel Falls in Venezuela, has a total drop of 3,121 feet.
The linen bandages that were used to wrap Egyptian mummies averaged 1,000 yards in length.
The lowest temperature ever recorded in the world was 129 degrees below 0 at Vostok, Antarctica, on July 21, 1983.
The metal instrument used in shoe stores to measure feet is called the Brannock device.
The monastic hours are matins, lauds, prime, tierce, sext, nones, vespers and compline.
The most snow accumulation in a one-day period was 75.8 inches at Silver Lake, Colorado, in April 1921.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced in 1978 that it would alternate men's and women's names in the naming of hurricanes. It was seen as an attempt at fair play. Hurricanes had been named for women for years, until NOAA succumbed to pressure from women's groups who were demanding that Atlantic storms be given unisex names.
The world's first speed limit regulation was in England in 1903. It was 20 mph.
The wristwatch was invented in 1904 by Louis Cartier.
There are 31,557,600 seconds in a year.
Though it goes to 10, 9 is estimated to be the point of total tectonic destruction from an earthquake (2 is the smallest that can be felt unaided.)
84% of a raw apple is water.
99% of the pumpkins sold in the US end up as jack-o-lanterns.
A cucumber is 96% water.
A notch in a tree will remain the same distance from the ground as the tree grows.
A pineapple is a berry.
According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the single-seeded fruit of the giant fan palm, or Lodoicea maldivica, can weigh 44 lbs. Commonly known as the double coconut or coco de mer, it is found wild only in the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean.
Advertisements for coffee in London in 1657 claimed that the beverage was a cure for scurvy, gout and other ills.
Almonds are the oldest, most widely cultivated and extensively used nuts in the world.
Americans eat more bananas than any other fruit: a total of 11 billion a year.
An average ear of corn has 800 kernels, arranged in 16 rows.
Arrowroot, an antidote for poisoned arrows, is used as a thickener in cooking.
Avocados have the highest calories of any fruit at 167 calories per hundred grams.
Banana oil never saw a banana; it's made from petroleum.
Bananas are actually herbs. Bananas die after fruiting, like all herbs do.
Both George Washington and Thomas Jefferson grew cannabis sativa (marijuana) on their plantations.
Cranberries are one of just 3 major fruits native to North America. Blueberries and Concord grapes are the other two.
Dr. Joel Poinsett, the 1st US ambassador to Mexico, brought the poinsettia to US in 1828. The plant, called "flower of the blessed night" in Mexico was renamed in Poinsett's honor.
Eggplant is a member of the thistle family.
From 70 to 80 percent of all ripe olives are grown in California's approximately 35,000 acres. In the 1700s, Franciscan monks brought olives to Mexico and then into California by way of the missions. The first cuttings were planted in 1769 at the San Diego Mission. Commercial cultivation of California olives began in the late 1800s. Today, anywhere from 80,000 to 160,000 tons of olives are produced in California each year.
From the 1500's to the 1700's, tobacco was prescribed by doctors to treat a variety of ailments including headaches, toothaches, arthritis and bad breath.
Ginger has been clinically demonstrated to work twice as well as Dramamine for fighting motion sickness, with no side effects.
Hydroponics is the technique by which plants are grown in water without soil.
In 1865 opium was grown in the state of Virginia and a product was distilled from it that yielded 4 percent morphine. In 1867 it was grown in Tennessee: six years later it was cultivated in Kentucky. During these years opium, marijuana and cocaine could be purchased legally over the counter from any druggist.
In 1924, Pope Urban VIII threatened to excommunicate snuff users.
In 1932 James Markham obtained the 1st patent issued for a tree. The patent was for a peach tree.
In Siberia, in 1994, a container full of marijuana was discovered in the 2,000-year-old grave of a Scythian princess and priestess, among the many other articles buried with her.
In the Netherlands, in 1634, a collector paid 1,000 pounds of cheese, four oxen, eight pigs, 12 sheep, a bed, and a suit of clothes for a single bulb of the Viceroy tulip.
Morphine was given its name in 1803 by the discoverer, a 20 year old German pharmacist named Friedrich Saturner. He named it after Morpheus, the Greek god of dreams.
No species of wild plant produces a flower or blossom that is absolutely black, and so far, none has been developed artificially.
Nutmeg is extremely poisonous if injected intravenously.
Oak trees do not have acorns until they are fifty years old or older.
One pound of tea can make 300 cups of the beverage.
One ragweed plant can release as many as one billion grains of pollen.
Oranges, lemons, watermelons, and tomatoes are berries.
Orchids have the smallest seeds. It takes more than 1.25 million seeds to weigh 1 gram.
Peanuts are beans.
Plants that need to attract moths for pollination are generally white or pale yellow, to be better seen when the light is dim. Plants that depend on butterflies, such as the poppy or the hibiscus, have more colorful flowers.
Quinine, one of the most important drugs known to man, is obtained from the dried bark of an evergreen tree native to South America.
Rice paper isn't made from rice but from a small tree which grows in Taiwan.
Tea was so expensive when it was first brought to Europe in the early 17th century that it was kept in locked wooden boxes.
The California redwood - coast redwood and giant sequoia - are the tallest and largest living organism in the world.
The first American advertisement for tobacco was published in 1789. It showed a picture of an Indian smoking a long clay pipe.
The fragrance of flowers is due to the essences of oil which they produce.
The largest single flower is the Rafflesia or "corpse flower". They are generally 3 feet in diameter with the record being 42 inches.
The oldest living thing in existence is not a giant redwood, but a bristlecone pine in the White Mountains of California, dated to be aged 4,600 years old.
The pineapple was symbol of welcome in the 1700-1800's. That is why in New England you will see so many pineapples on door knockers. An arch in Providence RI leading into the Federal Hill neighborhood has a pineapple on it for that very reason. Pineapples were brought home by seafarers as gifts.
The plant life in the oceans make up about 85 percent of all the greenery on the Earth.
The popular name for the giant sequoia tree is Redwood.
The rose family of plants, in addition to flowers, gives us apples, pears, plums, cherries, almonds, peaches and apricots.
The world's tallest grass, which has sometimes grown 130 feet or more, is bamboo.
There are more than 700 species of plants that grow in the United States that have been identified as dangerous if eaten. Among them are some that are commonly favored by gardeners: buttercups, daffodils, lily of the valley, sweet peas, oleander, azalea, bleeding heart, delphinium, and rhododendron.
Wheat is the world's most widely cultivated plant; grown on every continent except Antarctica.
When a coffee seed is planted, it takes five years to yield consumable fruit.
Willow bark, which provides the salicylic acid from which aspirin was originally synthesized, has been used as a pain remedy ever since the Greeks discovered its therapeutic power nearly 2,500 years ago.
Wine grapes, oranges, figs and olives were first planted in North America by Father Junipero Sera in 1769.
67 million pounds of pesticides and about 3 million tons of fertilizer are used annually on lawns in the US.
A single share of Coca-Cola stock, purchased in 1919, when the company went public, would have been worth $92,500 in 1997.
Actor Arnold Schwarzenegger bought the first Hummer manufactured for civilian use in 1992. The vehicle weighed in at 6,300 lbs and was 7 feet wide.
Americans consume 29 billion, or 58 percent, of the 50 billion aspirin tablets which are taken worldwide each year.
Americans spend more than $5 billion a year on cosmetics, toiletries, beauty parlors and barber shops.
Americans spent over $360 million in 1982 to avoid having bad breath.
Bayer was advertising cough medicine containing heroin in 1898.
Britain's first escalator was installed in Harrods in 1878.
BVD stands for the organizers of the company: Bradley, Voorhies, and Day.
Carbonated soda water was invented in 1767 by Joseph Priestley, the discoverer of oxygen.
Cheerios cereal was originally called Cheerioats.
Chewing gum was patented in 1869 by William Semple.
Coca-Cola was so named back in 1885 for its two 'medicinal' ingredients: extract of coca leaves and kola nuts. As for how much cocaine was originally in the formulation, it's hard to know.
Cocaine was sold to cure sore throat, neuralgia, nervousness, headache, colds and sleeplessness in the 1880s.
Colgate claims "Tooth Fairy" as a registered trademark.
During the Prohibition, at least 1,565 Americans died from drinking bad liquor, hundreds were blinded, and many were killed in bootlegger wars. Federal Agents and the Coast Guard made 75,000 arrests per year.
False eyelashes were invented by film director D.W. Griffith while he was making the 1916 epic, "Intolerance." He wanted actress Seena Owen to have lashes that brushed her cheeks.
For two years, during the 1970s, Mattel marketed a doll called "Growing Up Skipper." Her breasts grew when her arm was turned.
G.I. Joe was introduced at the annual American International Toy Fair in New York on Feb. 9, 1964.
Gatorade was named for the University of Florida Gators where it was first developed.
Hershey's Kisses are called that because the machine that makes them looks like it's kissing the conveyor belt.
Hungarian brothers George and L"szlo Biro invented the ball point pen in 1938.
IBM's motto is 'Think.'
If you put a raisin in a glass of champagne, it will keep floating to the top and sinking to the bottom.
In 1889, the 1st coin-operated telephone, patented by Hartford, Connecticut inventor William Gray, was installed in the Hartford Bank. Local calls using a coin-operated phone in the U.S. cost only 5 cents everywhere until 1951.
In 1964 General Mills began marketing Lucky Charms cereal with pink hearts, yellow moons, orange stars, and green clovers. The marshmallow bits (technically referred to as marbits) were invented in 1963 by John Holahan. The cereal is marketed using a leprechaun character named Lucky (L.C. Leprechaun is his full name) that touts his cereal as being "Magically Delicious." Over the years the various shapes and colors of the marshmallow bits in the cereal have undergone many changes.
In 1965, LBJ enacted a law requiring cigarette manufacturers to put health warnings on their packages.
In 1984, a Canadian farmer began renting advertising space on his cows.
In 1991 Procter & Gamble won a $75,000 lawsuit against James & Linda Newton who were found responsible for spreading rumors that the company supported the Church of Satan. The two were distributors of Amway Products, a competitor of Proctor & Gamble.
In 4000 BC Egypt, men and women wore glitter eye shadow made from the crushed shells of beetles.
In M&M candies, the letters stand for Mars and Murrie, the developers of the candy in 1941.
In the 1700s, European women achieved a pale complexion by eating "Arsenic Complexion Wafers" actually made with the poison.
Insulin was discovered in 1922 by Sir Frederick Banting and Dr. Charles Best.
It was the Frisbie Pie Company of Bridgeport, CT, whose name -- and lightweight pie tins -- gave birth to the modern Frisbee.
Jergens Lotion was created by Andrew Jergens, a former lumberjack, in 1880.
Kikkoman soy sauce was originated in 1630 in Japan.
Kotex was first manufactured as bandages, during W.W.I.
Laser stands for "light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation." Developed 1950s - 1960s.
Levi Strauss blue jeans with copper rivets were priced at $13.50 per dozen in 1874.
Money isn't made out of paper, it's made out of linen.
Most American car horns honk in the key of F.
Most lipstick contains fish scales.
Penicillin was first produced synthetically in a laboratory in 1946.
Perfume contains ethyl alcohol and 25% fragrant oils. Cologne is cheaper to produce and to purchase because the oil content in cologne is only 3%. Cologne was named for the German city in which it was first produced. The original formula combined alcohol, lemon spirits, orange bitters and mint oil.
The 1st personal computer, the Apple II, went on sale in 1977.
The 1st unattended, 24-hour self-service laundromat in the United States was opened by Nelson Puett in 1949 on North Loop in Austin, Texas
The Baby Ruth candy bar was actually named after Grover Cleveland's baby daughter, Ruth.
The Brownie box camera, introduced by Eastman Kodak, sold for $1.00 in 1900. The camera's 6-exposure film sold for 15 cents.
The Butterfinger candy bar was first produced by Chicago's Curtiss Candy Co. in 1923. As an advertising ploy, candy bars were dropped from an airplane on cities in 40 states.
The condom - made originally of linen - was invented in the early 1500's.
The electric chair was invented by Dr. Alphonse Rockwell and was first used on William Kemmler on August 6, 1890.
The first brand of Wrigley's chewing gum was called "Vassar", after the New England woman's college. Next were "Lotta" and "Sweet Sixteen Orange."
The first Corvette rolled off the Chevrolet assembly line in Flint, MI. in 1953. That early 'Vette sold for $3,250.
The first credit card, issued in 1950, was Diner's Club. Frank X. McNamara started the company with 200 card holders.
The first product to have a UPC bar code on its packaging was Wrigley's gum.
The first safety feature for an automobile was invented in 1908 by John O'Leary. He patented a large net, to be installed on the front fender, to scoop pedestrians out of the way before they could be run over.
The first seeing-eye dog was presented to a blind person on April 25, 1938.
The first suburban shopping mall was opened in 1922 by National Department Stores in Saint Louis.
The first toothbrush with bristles was developed in China in 1498. Bristles were taken from hogs at first, later from horses. The nylon bristles were developed in 1938 by DuPont.
The first toy product ever advertised on television was Mr. Potato Head®. Introduced in 1952.
The first US consumer product sold in the Soviet Union was Pepsi-Cola.
The glue on Israeli postage stamps is certified kosher.
The Prudential Life Insurance Company in USA stopped using their slogan "Own A Piece Of The Rock" after Rock Hudson died of AIDS and many jokes where made about him and the slogan.
The revolving door was invented August 7, 1888, by Theophilus Van Kannel, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
The safety pin was patented in 1849 by Walter Hunt. He sold the patent rights for $400.
The sewing machine was patented on August 12, 1851, by Isaac Singer of Pittstown, New York.
The soldiers of World War I were the first people to use the modern flushing toilet. The inventor: Thomas Crapper.
This sounds feasible, but isn't true! Crapper actually invented the automatic shut-off mechanism used in the modern toilet.
"Flushable" toilets were in use in ancient Rome.
The United States minted a 1787 copper coin with the motto 'Mind Your Business.'
The WD in WD-40 stands for Water Displacement. It was invented on the 40th try for a formula that worked.
The word vaccine comes from the Latin word "vacca," which means cow. This name was chosen because the first vaccination was derived from cowpox which was given to a boy.
The world's first adhesive postage stamp went on sale in England in 1840. It was the Penny Black, portraying Queen Victoria.
The world's first singing commercial aired on the radio on Christmas Eve, 1926 for Wheaties cereal. The four male singers, eventually known as the Wheaties Quartet, sang the jingle.
The yo-yo was introduced in 1929 by Donald F. Duncan. The toy was based on a weapon used by 16th-century Filipino hunters.
There are about 30 milligrams of caffeine in the average chocolate bar, while a cup of coffee contains around 100 to 150 milligrams.
There are two credit cards for every person in the United States.
Townsend Speakman of Philadelphia mixed fruit flavor with soda water in 1807, creating the first flavored soda pop, he called it Nephite Julep.
Two in every three car buyers pays the sticker price without arguing.
VHS stands for Video Home System.
When Scott Paper Co. first started manufacturing toilet paper they did not put their name on the product because of embarrassment.
Wrigley's promoted their new spearmint-flavored chewing gum in 1915 by mailing 4 sample sticks to each of the 1.5 million names listed in US telephone books.
A diamond will not dissolve in acid. The only thing that can destroy it is intense heat.
A lump of pure gold the size of a matchbox can be flattened into a sheet the size of a tennis court.
Absolutely pure gold is so soft that it can be molded with the hands.
An ounce of gold can be stretched into a wire 50 miles long.
Colored diamonds are caused by impurities such as nitrogen (yellow), boron (blue). With red diamonds being due to deformities in the structure of the stone, and green ones being the result of irradiation.
Diamond is the hardest naturally occurring substance, and is also one of the most valuable natural substances. Diamonds are crystals formed almost entirely of carbon. Because of its hardness, the diamond is the most enduring of all gemstones. They are among the most costly jewels in the world, partly because they are rare, Only four important diamond fields have been found - in Africa, South America, India, and the Soviet Union.
In 1957, the Shipping port Atomic Power Station in Pennsylvania, the first nuclear facility to generate electricity in the United States, went on line. (It was taken out of service in 1982.)
In 1982, in the first operation of its kind, doctors at the University of Utah Medical Center implanted a permanent artificial heart in the chest of retired dentist Dr. Barney Clark, who lived 112 days with the device.
Mercury is the only metal that is liquid at room temperature.
Mineral deposits in caves: The ones growing upward are stalagmites, the ones growing downward are stalactites.
Natural gas has no odor. The smell is added artificially so that leaks can be detected.
Prussic acid, in a crystalline powder called Zyklon B, was used to kill in Germany's gas chambers. The gas would paralyze the victim's lungs, causing them to suffocate.
Sea water, loaded with mineral salts, weighs about a pound and a half more per cubit foot than fresh water at the same temperature.
Ten per cent of the salt mined in the world each year is used to de-ice the roads in America.
The air we breathe is 78% nitrogen, 21.5% oxygen, .5% argon and other gases.
The Chinese were using aluminum to make things as early as 300 AD Western civilization didn't rediscover aluminum until 1827.
The Cullinan Diamond is the largest gem-quality diamond ever discovered. Found in 1905, the original 3,100 carats were cut to make jewels for the British Crown Jewels and the British Royal family's collection.
The largest gold nugget ever found weighed 172 lbs., 13 oz.
The largest hailstone ever recorded was 17.5 inches in diameter - bigger than a basketball.
The most abundant metal in the Earth's crust is aluminum.
The only rock that floats in water is pumice.
The three most common elements in the universe are 1) hydrogen; 2) helium; 3) oxygen.
The United States government keeps its supply of silver at the US Military Academy at West Point, NY.
All the moons of the Solar System are named after Greek and Roman mythology, except the moons of Uranus, which are named after Shakespearean characters.
Astronauts brought back about 800 pounds of lunar rock to Earth. Most of it has not been analyzed.
In 1959, the Soviet space probe "Luna Two" became the first manmade object to reach the moon as it crashed onto the lunar surface.
In 1968, "Apollo Seven," the first manned Apollo mission, was launched with astronauts Wally Schirra, Donn Fulton Eisele and R. Walter Cunningham aboard.
Jupiter's moon Ganymede is the largest moon in the Solar System, and is larger than the planets Mercury and Pluto.
Olympus Mons on Mars is the largest volcano in our solar system.
On a clear night in the Northern Hemisphere the naked eye can discern some 5000 stars.
On February 7, 1969 a meteorite weighing over 1 ton fell in Chihuahua, Mexico.
Only 55% of all Americans know that the sun is a star.
Robert Goddard a scientist and holder of 214 patents fired the first rocket using liquid propellant in 1926.
Sunday, July 20, 1969: Neil Armstrong was the first man to walk on the moon, Edwin Aldrin was the second. They were members of Apollo 11, and landed in the Sea of Tranquility. The Lunar Excursion Module was named the "Eagle." Michael Collins stayed onboard the mother ship, "Columbia."
The Apollo 11 plaque left on the Moon says, "Here men from the planet Earth first set foot upon the Moon July 1969, A.D. / WE CAME IN PEACE FOR ALL MANKIND."
The first American satellite in orbit, Explorer I, was launched February 1, 1958.
The first man-made object to circle the earth was Sputnik I, launched in 1957.
The International Space Station weighs about 500 tons and is the same size as a football field.
The three most recently discovered planets were Uranus in 1781, Neptune in 1846, and Pluto in 1930.
Uranus is the only planet that rotates on its side.
What we call the sky is merely the limit of our vision into the atmosphere. The sky, like the horizon, is always as far away as one can see.
A perfect game in baseball is one in which the same player pitches the entire game without allowing any player of the opposing team to reach first base -- by any means.
At Jack Russell Stadium in Clearwater, Florida, on June 26, 1985, organist Wilbur Snapp played "Three Blind Mice" following a call by umpire Keith O'Connor. The umpire was not amused, and saw to it that Mr. Snapp was ejected from the game.
Babe Ruth hit his first major-league home run on May 6, 1915. He was playing for the Boston Red Sox at the time. 'The Sultan of Swat' went on to smash 714 round-trippers before he retired, from the Boston Braves, in 1935.
Baseball rules were codified in 1846 by Alexander Cartwright of the Knickerbocker Baseball Club.
Baseball's National League was born in 1876. Eight competing baseball teams met in New York City's Grand Central Hotel. The first president of the new league was Morgan Gardner Bulkeley, who later became a US Senator. The eight original cities with teams were: Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Louisville and Hartford. Two of the original teams are now in the American League (Boston and New York) while Louisville and Hartford are now minor-league baseball towns.
Baseball's home plate is 17 inches wide.
Basketball was invented in 1891 by James Naismith. He set out to invent a game to occupy students between the football and baseball seasons.
Each king in a deck of playing cards represents a great king from history: Spades - King David, Clubs - Alexander the Great, Hearts - Charlemagne, Diamonds - Julius Caesar.
Eddie Arcaro, one of the greatest jockeys in horse race history, rode 250 losers before he won his first race. Ultimately, Arcaro won 4,779 races - including five Derby winners, six in the Preakness, and six in the Belmont Stakes, on such famous horses as Whirlaway, Citation, and Kelso.
Golfers use an estimated $800 million worth of golf balls annually.
In 1905, 18 men died from injuries sustained on the football field. President Theodore Roosevelt stepped in and instituted safety measures to make the game safer.
In 1970, 127 runners ran the NY Marathon. In 1998, 32,000 did.
In a typical season major league baseball will require 4,800 ash trees worth of Louisville sluggers.
In playing poker, there is one chance in 500 of drawing a flush.
Olympic badminton rules say that the bird has to have exactly fourteen feathers.
On February 6, 1971 the first golf ball was hit on the moon by Alan Shepard.
Parker Brothers was founded by George Swinerton Parker, 18, in 1885. The first game produced was 'Banking,' in which the player who amasses the most wealth is the winner.
Pitcher Joe Nuxhall of the Cincinnati Reds hurled his first major-league game in 1944. Nuxhall, the youngest pitcher in major league baseball, was only 15 years, 10 months and 11 days old when he pitched that game against the St. Louis Cardinals.
Poland's Stella Walsh (Stanislawa Walasiewicz)-won the women's 100-meter race at the 1932 Olympics in Los Angeles, becoming the first woman to break the 12-second barrier. When she was killed in 1980 as an innocent victim in a robbery attempt, an autopsy declared her to be a male.
Sir Barton won the Belmont Stakes in New York in 1919, to become the first horse to capture the Triple Crown. This was the first time that the Belmont Stakes had been run as part of thoroughbred racing's most prestigious trio of events. Sir Barton had already won the first two jewels of the Triple Crown -- the Kentucky Derby in Louisville, Kentucky and the Preakness Stakes in Maryland.
The 'huddle' in football was formed due to a deaf football player who used sign language to communicate and his team didn't want the opposition to see the signals he used and in turn huddled around him.
The annual White House Easter egg-roll was started by President Hayes in 1878.
The dimensions of a regulation football field are: 360 feet long and 160 feet wide.
The distance between the pitcher's rubber and home plate in baseball is 60 feet, 6 inches.
The first Rose Bowl game was held in 1902 in Pasadena, California. The University of Michigan beat Sanford 49-0.
The first black player in the American League was Larry Doby with the Cleveland Indians in 1947.
The first cover of "Sports Illustrated," in 1954, showed National League umpire, Augie Donatelli, behind the plate with two major-league stars: catcher Wes Westrum, and batter Eddie Matthews.
First Instant Replay was used during Army Navy Football Game at Municipal Stadium Philadelphia on December 7, 1963, invented by Tony Verna (CBS Director.)
The first Kentucky Derby was run at Churchill Downs in 1875 with Aristides as winner.
The first NBA player to score 38,000 points was Kareem Abdul-Jabar in 1989.
The first pick (by Eagles) in the first NFL draft in 1935, was Jay Berwanger from the University of Chicago. He never played in the league
The first players elected to Baseball Hall of Fame were Ty Cobb, Babe Ruth, Honus Wagner, Christy Mathewson & Walter Johnson in 1936.
The first professional football team to sport an insignia on their helmets was the Los Angeles Rams in 1950, who hand painted yellow horns on their blue leather helmets.
The first Soccer World Cup was held in Uruguay in 1930 and attracted 13 competing countries.
The first triple jump in figure skating competition was performed by Dick Button in 1952.
The first Wimbledon Tennis Competition took place in 1877 solely as an amateur competition. Men's singles was the only event that took place. There were 22 competitors and the championship was won by Spencer Gore.
The Four Horsemen of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame played together for the last time in 1925, as the Irish downed Stanford in the Rose Bowl, 27-10. The Four Horsemen were Jim Crowley, Elmer Layden, Don Miller and Harry Stuhldreher.
The game of volleyball was invented in 1895 by William G. Morgan.
The high jump method of jumping head first and landing on the back is called the Fosbury Flop.
The largest baseball card collection, 200,000 cards, is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
The modern Olympic Games were held in the first time in 1896 at Athens and were then followed by the 1900 Paris games. The winter games were added in 1924.
The oiuja board was invented by Isaac and William Fuld, and was patented July 1, 1892.
The Olympic Games were held in St. Louis, MO. In 1904, the first time that the games were held in the United States.
The only father and son to hit back-to-back home runs in a major league baseball game: Ken Griffey, Jr., and his father, Ken Griffey, Sr., both of the Seattle Mariners in a game against the California Angels on September 14th, 1990.
The Ouija board is named for the French and German words for yes - oui and ja.
The world's first roller coaster opened in 1884 at Coney Island, New York. It was designed by Lemarcus Thompson, a former Sunday school teacher.
There are 43,252,003,274,489,856,000 different color combinations possible on a Rubik's Cube.
The World Rubik Cube championship was held in Budapest on June 5, 1982. Nineteen National Champions took part. Minh Thai, the US Champion, won by solving the Cube in of 22.95 seconds. The world record, in competitive conditions, grew progressively lower and now stands at 16.5 seconds.
There are 100 tiles in a 'Scrabble' crossword game.
There are 2,598,960 five-card hands possible in a 52-card deck of cards.
There are nine rooms on a 'Clue' game board. A forfeited baseball game is recorded as a 9-0 score.
Until 1967 it wasn't illegal for Olympic athletes to use drugs to enhance their performance during competition.
Until the 1870s, baseball was played without the use of gloves.
When Henry Aaron hit his 715th Home Run, breaking Babe Ruth's record, the pitcher who served it up was Al Downing of the Los Angeles Dodgers. They were both wearing number 44.
Wild Bill Hickok was killed playing poker, holding two pairs - aces and eights, which has become known as 'Dead Man's Hand.'
As of 2006, the cost of a 30-second commercial on average is $2.5 million. The first famous Super Bowl commercial was a 1974 ad for Noxzema featuring Super Bowl legend Joe Namath.
California leads with five MVPs, followed by Ohio and Florida with four.
Dan Reeves, Mike Ditka and Tony Dungy have appeared in the Super Bowl as a player, assistant coach and head coach.
During halftime show of Super Bowl XXXVIII in 2004, Justin Timberlake removed a piece of Janet Jackson's top, exposing her right breast with a star-shaped ring around the nipple. Timberlake and Jackson have maintained that the incident was accidental, calling it a "wardrobe malfunction."
In Super Bowl XLI (2007) Tony Dungy of the Colts and Lovie Smith of the Bears making history as the first African-Americans to coach in a Super Bowl.
Jerry Rice has scored the most touchdowns (7) in three Super Bowls.
Mike Lodish has played the most Super Bowls (6), four with Buffalo and two with Denver.
No network footage exists of Super Bowl I. It was taped over, supposedly for a soap opera.
No NFL team has ever played the Super Bowl on its own home field.
No Super Bowl game has ever gone into overtime play.
No Super Bowl has ever ended in a shutout. Super Bowl VII with Miami Dolphins kicker Garo Yepremian's failed field goal attempt is perhaps the most dramatic example of a near shutout. The lowest amount of points scored in a Super Bowl is 3, put up by those same Dolphins in the previous year's Super Bowl, Super Bowl VI.
One MVP, Dallas' Chuck Howley, came from a losing team in Super Bowl V.
One MVP, Washington's Mark Rypien, was born in Canada.
Six non-Division I players have been named MVP or co-MVP.
Six teams have lost the final game of the regular season and still won the Super Bowl.
Super Bowl Sunday is the second-largest U.S. food consumption day, following Thanksgiving.
Super Bowls are held in an American city that is chosen years in advance.
The 33 MVPs have been born in 19 states.
The Dallas Cowboys have scored the most points (221); the Denver Broncos have allowed the most (206).
The Dolphins are the only team that failed to score a touchdown in a Super Bowl game. Miami scored just three points in a 21-point loss to Dallas in Super Bowl VI in New Orleans.
The first Super Bowl was played in 1967. The Green Bay Packers of the National Football League defeated the Kansas City Chiefs of the American Football League, 35-to-10.
The longest field goal in Super Bowl history was by Steve Christie. Christie hit a 54-yarder in the first quarter of Super Bowl XXVIII vs. Dallas. Jason Elam has the second-longest field goal of 51 yards.
The Los Angeles Rams had the most losses (7) of any team to play in the Super Bowl.
The NFL pays for up to 150 rings for the winning Super Bowl team at $5,000 apiece (plus adjustments for extra gold or diamonds) and 150 pieces of jewelry for the losing Super Bowl team, each to cost up to half the price of the Super Bowl ring
The only team to win back-to-back Super Bowls under different head coaches are the San Francisco 49ers. They won Super Bowl XXIII under legendary coach Bill Walsh and the next year returned to victory under George Seifert.
The Pac-10 and SEC have a player named MVP the most times (6).
The team leading at the end of the third quarter has won the past 13.
The team to score first has won 25 of 36 Super Bowls The team leading at the end of the third quarter has won 31 of 36 Super Bowls.
The winner of the AFC Championship Game faces the winner of the NFC Championship Game, in the culmination of the NFL playoffs.
The winning Super Bowl team gets the Vince Lombardi Trophy, named for the coach of the Green Bay Packers, who won the first two Super Bowl games. Following his death in September 1970, the trophy was named the Vince Lombardi Trophy, first awarded at Super Bowl V in Miami. The Vince Lombardi Trophy is made by Tiffany, takes 72 man hours to produce, and it costs $12,500.
Tony Dungy is the first African-American coach to win a Super Bowl.
Twelve MVPs are in the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
Twenty-three of 32 NFL teams have played in the Super Bowl -- AFC (13), NFC (10).
A hedgehog's heart beats 190 times a minute on average and drops to only 20 beats per minute during hibernation.
An average beaver can cut down two hundred trees a year.
An average pig squeals at a range from 100 to 115 decibels.
An ear of corn averages 800 kernels in 16 rows.
Average calories burned daily by the sled dogs running in Alaska's annual Iditarod race: 10,000.
Average length of a coat hanger when straightened: 44 inches.
Average number of eggs laid by the female American Oyster per year: 500 million. Usually only one oyster out of the bunch reaches maturity.
Average number of hummingbirds required to create the weight of 1 ounce: 18.
Average number of squirts from a cow's udder needed to yield a gallon of milk : 345.
Cats average 16 hours of sleep a day, more than any other mammal.
During pregnancy, the average woman's uterus expands up to five hundred times its normal size.
Every square inch of the human body has an average of 32 million bacteria on it.
Humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin every hour - about 1.5 pounds a year. By 70 years of age, an average person will have lost 105 pounds of skin.
If the average man never trimmed his beard, it would grow to nearly 30 feet long in his lifetime.
In 1900 the average age at death in the US was 47.
It takes a lobster approximately 7 years to grow to be one pound.
On average women say 7,000 words per day. Men manage just over 2000.
On average, 150 couples get married in Las Vegas each day.
On average, 42,000 balls are used and 650 matches are played at the annual Wimbledon tennis tournament.
On average, 90% of the people that have the disease Lupus are female.
On average, pigs live for about 15 years.
On average, right-handed people live 9 years longer than their left-handed counterparts.
Pregnancy in humans lasts on average about 270 days (from conception to birth).
Smokers are likely to die on average six and a half years earlier than non-smokers.
The ashes of the average cremated person weigh 9 pounds.
The average adult guinea pig weighs 2 pounds.
The average adult male ostrich, the world's largest living bird, weighs up to 345 pounds.
The average adult raccoon weighs 21 pounds.
The average American spends 120 hours a month watching television, the equivalent of five complete days in front of the TV.
The average American will eat 35,000 cookies in a lifetime.
The average American woman spends 55 minutes per day getting showered, dressed, and groomed.
The average bank teller loses about $250 every year.
The average capacity of a pelican's pouch is 12 quarts.
The average cat consumes about 127,750 calories a year, nearly 28 times its own weight in food and the same amount again in liquids.
The average chicken lays about 260 eggs a year.
The average cod deposits between 4 and 6 million eggs at a single spawning.
The average cow produces 40 glasses of milk each day.
The average cup of coffee contains more than 1000 different chemical components, none of which is tasted in isolation but only as part of the overall flavor.
The average duration of sexual intercourse for humans is 2 minutes.
The average elephant produces 50 pounds of dung each day.
The average fox weighs 14 pounds.
The average healthy porpoise lives 30 years.
The average home size in the United States is now 2,200 square feet, up from 1,400 square feet in 1970, according to the National Association of Home Builders.
The average human head weighs about eight pounds.
The average lead pencil will draw a line 35 miles long or write approximately 50,000 English words.
The average life expectancy of a beaver in captivity is five years.
The average life expectancy of a kangaroo in captivity is 7 years.
The average life expectancy of a leopard in captivity is 12 years.
The average life expectancy of a rhinoceros in captivity is 15 years.
The average life expectancy of geese, barring all accidents, is 25 years.
The average life span of a mosquito is two weeks.
The average life span of a moose is 15 to 25 years.
The average life span of the hedgehog is 10 years.
The average litter of Mexican wolves is between four and seven pups.
The average llama weighs 375 pounds.
The average mature oak tree sheds approximately 700,000 leaves in the fall.
The average person drinks about 16, 000 gallons of water in a lifetime.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
The average person is about a quarter of an inch taller at night.
The average person laughs about 15 times a day.
The average person loses an average of 40 to 100 strands of hair a day.
The average person produces 25,000 quarts of spit in a lifetime, enough to fill two swimming pools.
The average person releases nearly a pint of intestinal gas by flatulence every day. Most is due to swallowed air. The rest is from fermentation of undigested food.
The average person's scalp has 100,000 hairs.
The average person uses the bathroom 6 times per day.
The average person walks the equivalent of twice around the world in a lifetime.
The average person's hair will grow approximately 590 inches in a lifetime.
The average porcupine has more than 30,000 quills.
The average porpoise weighs 103 pounds.
The average snail moves at a rate of approximately 0.000362005 miles per hour.
The average US male will spend 2,965 hours shaving during his lifetime.
The FDA allows an average of 30 or more insect fragments and one or more rodent hairs per 100 grams of peanut butter.
The linen bandages that were used to wrap Egyptian mummies averaged 1,000 yards in length.
The size of a raindrop is around 0.5 mm - 2.5 mm, and they fall from the sky on average 21 feet per second.
The vocabulary of the average person consists of 5,000 to 6,000 words.
A penguin swims at a speed of approximately 15 miles per hour.
A person uses approximately fifty-seven sheets of toilet paper each day.
An adult porcupine has approximately 30,000 quills on its body, which are replaced every year.
Annually, approximately 46 millions Cokes, five million pounds of French fries, and seven million hamburgers are consumed at Walt Disney World Resort.
Approximate number of facial expressions dogs can make: 100.
Approximately 125 people die in the United States from an anaphylaxis to foods each year.
Approximately 20% of Americans have a passport.
Approximately 200 pets are buried in a pet cemetery out of the thousands of pets that die each day.
Approximately 25,000 workers died during the building of the Panama Canal, and approximately 20,000 of them contracted malaria and yellow fever.
Approximately 850 peanuts make a 18 oz jar of peanut butter.
Approximately one out of four injuries by athletes involve the wrist and hand.
Babies' eyes do not produce tears until the baby is approximately six to eight weeks old.
Dill seeds are so small that approximately 10,000 dill seeds would be required to make an ounce.
Every year, surgical tools are left in approximately 1,500 patients in the USA. Fatter patients are more prone to having a surgical tool left inside of them due to the additional amount of space in their bodies.
Flamingos are able to fly at a speed of approximately 55 kilometers an hour. In one night they can travel about 600 km.
In New York City, approximately 1,600 people are bitten by other humans.
In the United States, approximately seven billion pounds of chocolate and candy are manufactured each year.
Once a human reaches the age of 35, he/she will start losing approximately 7,000 brain cells a day. The cells will never be replaced.
Our galaxy has approximately 250 billion stars.
Sea water is approximately 3.5 percent salt.
The Eiffel Tower is painted approximately once every 7 years and requires nearly 50 tons of paint each time.
The Empire State Building in New York City weighs approximately 365,000 tons.
The eyeball of a human weighs approximately 28 grams.
There are approximately 13,000 identifiable varieties of roses throughout the world.
There are approximately 2,700 different species of mosquitoes.
There are approximately 250,000 sweat glands in your feet.
There are approximately 45 billion fat cells in an average adult.
There are approximately 7,000 feathers on an eagle.
There are approximately 75,000,000 horses in the world.
There are approximately 9,000 taste buds on the tongue.
There are approximately fifty Bibles sold each minute across the world.
You need approximately 2,000 berries to make one pound of coffee.

